
Skip to main content

      Contact
      English

    Products & Services
    Market-specific Solutions
    Company

    Company
    Press

Search Results(1411)
All content types

    All content types
    Event
    Feature
    News
    Press Release
    Multimedia Assets

Business
Time Span
Press Contacts
HYFLEXPOWER: The world’s first integrated power-to-X-to-power hydrogen gas turbine demonstrator

    Green hydrogen project launched in May 2020
    Decarbonizing a paper factory by modernizing an existing combined heat and power plant in France

With the HYFLEXPOWER project, a consortium made up of Engie Solutions, Siemens Gas and Power, Centrax, Arttic, German Aerospace Center (DLR) and four European universities are implementing a project funded by the European Commission under the Horizon 2020 Framework Program for Research and Innovation (Grant Agreement 884229). The implementation of this project, the world's very first industrial-scale power-to-X-to-power1 demonstrator with an advanced hydrogen turbine, will be launched at Smurfit Kappa PRF’s site - a company specialized in manufacturing recycled paper - in Saillat-sur-Vienne, France. The purpose of this project is to prove that hydrogen can be produced and stored from renewable electricity and then added with up to 100 percent to the natural gas currently used with combined heat and power plants. For this an existing Siemens SGT-400 industrial gas turbine will be upgraded to convert stored hydrogen into electricity and thermal energy.  
Press Release | 29. May 2020 | Gas and Power
Siemens to supply compression and power generation equipment for Balikpapan Refinery in Indonesia
Siemens Gas and Power has been selected to supply a range of compression and power generation equipment for the Balikpapan Refinery located on Borneo Island in East Kalimantan, Indonesia. 
Press Release | 28. May 2020 | Gas and Power
Siemens wins compression contract for Golden Pass LNG export project

    Siemens Gas and Power will supply three boil-off gas compressor trains to the Golden Pass LNG export terminal
    A 6.8-megawatt electric motor will drive each compressor package

Siemens Gas and Power was awarded a contract from CCZ JV (a joint venture between Chiyoda International Corporation, McDermott International, and Zachry Group) to supply three cryogenic boil-off gas (BOG) compressor trains for the Golden Pass LNG export terminal in Sabine Pass, Texas, USA. The export facility is a joint venture between affiliates of Qatar Petroleum and ExxonMobil and will be integrated into the existing Golden Pass LNG import terminal. It will include the construction of three liquefaction process trains, each with a nominal output of approximately 5.2 million metric tons per annum (MTPA). 
Press Release | 27. May 2020 | Gas and Power
One Siemens Energy share for every two Siemens shares
The information contained herein is not for publication or distribution, directly or indirectly, in or into Australia or any other jurisdiction where to do so would be prohibited by applicable law.

    Siemens AG to spin off 55 percent of Siemens Energy to Siemens shareholders
    Plans call for further reducing Siemens’ stake significantly within 12 to 18 months after spin-off’s effective date
    Siemens AG contractually obligated to ensure Siemens Energy’s autonomy and independence
    Siemens Energy to have strong capital and liquidity base; solid investment-grade rating targeted
    Initial listing of new shares planned for September 28, 2020

        Siemens AG has today published key details of the spin-off of its energy business, together with the invitation to the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on July 9, 2020. Issuance of the spin-off report marks another key milestone in the creation of an independent, world-leading energy pure play. Siemens shareholders are to automatically receive one share of Siemens Energy AG for every two shares of Siemens AG. Fifty-five percent of Siemens Energy will be spun off to Siemens shareholders. Depending on the strategic and operational development of the two companies, Siemens AG intends to further reduce its stake in Siemens Energy significantly within 12 to 18 months. In addition, Siemens has placed itself under a contractual obligation to refrain from exercising a controlling influence over the new company in the future. Subject to approval by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, plans call for the spin-off to take place, as announced, by the end of September 2020. The initial listing is to take place on September 28th, 2020. 

Press Release | 26. May 2020 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Siemens enables climate-neutral, safe energy distribution with new Clean Air switchgear

    F-gas-free Clean Air switchgear extends blue GIS portfolio to 24 kV level
    Proven and safe technologies for easy management over the entire lifecycle
    Digital features allow for increased reliability in all grids and optimized operation

Siemens Smart Infrastructure is expanding its portfolio of environmentally friendly, gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) to 24 kilovolts (kV) with a new fluorine gas-free NXPLUS C 24 medium-voltage switchgear. The use of Clean Air – a natural insulation medium – in combination with proven vacuum switching technology eliminates the need for any fluorine-based gas mixtures (F-gases), enabling climate-neutral energy distribution. The switchgear is equipped with digital features allowing for safe, reliable and cost-efficient operation.
Press Release | 26. May 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens Mobility to deliver rail electrification for major extension of Stockholm Metro

    Siemens Mobility has been appointed to supply the rail electrification system for Region Stockholm Extended Metro Administration
    Major rail electrification contract with a volume of 21 Million Euros

Siemens Mobility has been selected by Region Stockholm Extended Metro Administration to deliver rectifier stations and network stations for the new Stockholm Metro extension. The project is an expansion of the metro with a yellow line that will run from Odenplan to Arenastaden and extensions of the Blue line to Barkarby in the north west and to Nacka and Söderord in the south east. In addition, the Blue Line will be connected to the green Hagsätra branch, and a new section will be built between Fridhemsplan and Älvsjö.  The project is worth about 21 Million Euros. Work will start immediately and will take several years to complete. Delivery will take place in stages during the construction period. 
Press Release | 25. May 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Mobility delivers ten Smartrons to Bulgaria

    BDŽ orders ten Smartron locomotives
    Delivery: February to May 2021
    The Smartron concept: One version, one contract, one price

Bulgarian State Railways (BDŽ) has ordered ten Smartron locomotives from Siemens Mobility. The Smartron is a preconfigured locomotive that combines all the advantages of a standard product with the proven platform technology of the Vectron locomotives. 
Press Release | 25. May 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Standard protective coating
Siemens is expanding its proven Simatic S7-400 product line to include solutions specifically for use in harsh ambient conditions. The high-availability Simatic S7-400H CPUs (Central Processing Units) are now manufactured as standard with conformal coating that complies with ISA-S71.04 severity level G3 (standard for corrosion-resistant design of power supplies). This special printed circuit board coating considerably extends the range of applications for the controller without additional costs. In addition, Siemens has attained the security certificate CNCERT (China) for the communication robustness of the Simatic S7-400H, which recognizes the high security standard of the controller. 
News | 24. May 2020 | Digital Industries
Vectron – the vehicle concept
Siemens Mobility's Vectron locomotives are used for both freight and passenger service. During the development of the locomotive, the focus was on providing a future-proof design, investment security, environmental compatibility, fungibility, retrofitting capability and convertibility. The Vectron can be delivered as a purely electrical version for operating with alternating current (AC) or direct current (DC) power systems as well as a multisystem (MS) variant in the power classes 5.2 MW, 5.6 MW and 6.4 MW. Along with the desired national train control system, the locomotives can also be equipped with the latest European Train Control System (ETCS). The locomotives are built in the Siemens Mobility plant in Munich-Allach, Germany. The first Vectron was delivered in 2012. Siemens Mobility has sold over 1,000 Vectrons to date to a total of 49 customers. The Vectron fleet has accumulated more than 300 million kilometers of service so far. The locomotives are currently certified for operation in 19 countries. For freight transport in Germany, Siemens Mobility also offers the Smartron standard locomotive and the Vectron Dual Mode, a combination of diesel and electric locomotive.
Feature | 24. May 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Packaging Toolbox enables easy engineering of packaging machines

    Toolbox completely aligned to Simatic S7-1500 controller
    Libraries with tested functions for faster commissioning 
    Implementation of international packaging standards 

The Siemens’ Packaging Toolbox is now available in its entirety for the Simatic S7-1500 controller in the TIA Portal engineering framework. It offers users packaging specific libraries which can be integrated into existing or new machine applications as well as program blocks. The Toolbox supports international standards such as OMAC, PackML and Weihenstephan Standards. By adding or modifying function blocks it can be adapted to suit individual requirements, while at the same time saving the user time during engineering and commissioning through tested functions and software solutions.
Press Release | 20. May 2020 | Digital Industries
TÜV certifications for Siemens process control systems in the water and wastewater industry
The increased networking and digitalization of automation and IT systems as well as the growing threat of cyber attacks, is forcing plant operators to invest heavily in appropriate protection for their systems and plants in order to ensure security of supply. Siemens offers proven and certified security concepts for cyber security, for example the Defense-in-Depth concept, special reference solutions, and associated services as an integral part of plant design, engineering and operation. Users benefit from seamless concepts and solutions – with Siemens as their reliable partner. 
News | 18. May 2020 | Digital Industries
Atos and Siemens introduce Digital Twin solution within the global pharmaceutical industry
Atos, a global leader in digital transformation and Siemens, a global engineering leader, are working together with the pharmaceutical industry to improve production with an innovative solution based on a digital replica of the pharma production process. Currently being tested in the pharmaceutical industry, this innovative “Process Digital Twin” for pharma manufacturing – powered by IoT, AI and Advanced Analytics – is designed to provide improved efficiency and flexibility in the manufacturing of pharmaceutical products.
Press Release | 18. May 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens transports its most powerful and efficient gas turbine

    Heavy shipment of the first HL-class with 50 Hertz frequency sets sail for the UK
    Powerhouse unit from Berlin heads for one of the world’s most efficient combined cycle power plants

The largest, most powerful, and most efficient heavy-duty gas turbine that Siemens has produced to date was loaded onto an inland cargo ship today in Berlin, where it set off on its journey for Keadby, Lincolnshire, in the UK to be tested in a power plant of UK energy generator SSE Thermal. Built by Siemens Gas and Power in its Berlin factory and destined for the 50-Hertz market, the powerhouse known as SGT5-9000HL measures 13 meters in length, five meters in height, five meters in width, and weighs nearly 500 metric tons. After the recent first fire and synchronization to the grid of its first 60-Hertz version in a power plant in the United States, Siemens reports this second milestone for its latest HL-class within several weeks.
Press Release | 15. May 2020 | Gas and Power
New Sirius temperature monitoring relays offer more functions in less space

    New 3RS2 product series for monitoring the temperature of gases, liquids, and solids in industrial and infrastructure installations
    Overall width was cut in half and allows space-saving installation
    Combining functions into one device simplifies order selection

Siemens Smart Infrastructure has transformed the temperature monitoring relays from its Sirius portfolio. The new series 3RS2 devices are available in analog and digital versions. They use sensors to measure the temperature in industrial control cabinets, of engine, bearing, and transmission oils, or cooling liquids, preventing plant malfunctions or damage that can result when exceeding or dropping below certain limit values. These relays can also monitor heating, air-conditioning, and ventilation systems, solar collectors, heat pumps, and hot water supply systems.The devices in the new Sirius 3RS2 series are approved for safety applications up to SIL 1 / PL c, for use in industrial furnaces, as well as for monitoring burners and ATEX applications, among other things. Compared to the predecessor models, they feature expanded functionalities, a narrower design, and easier operability. 
Press Release | 13. May 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Hot data trail
V-Zug AG is the Swiss market leader for domestic appliances and produces individually configurable ovens for its customers. In order to monitor the individual assembly steps precisely during production and to document the installation of single parts effectively, V-Zug relies on Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology from Siemens across the entire manufacturing process. This means that the digital trail of each product can be traced, which aids quality assurance and process optimization. 
News | 10. May 2020 | Digital Industries
Second Quarter Results FY 2020
We released our second quarter results for fiscal year 2020 on May 8, 2020. The Press Conference Call and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
Munich | 08. May 2020 - 08. May 2020 | Siemens AG Save the date
Robust performance in complicated times

    Revenue stable, orders below prior-year level
    Order backlog at €69 billion, further €81 billion at Siemens Energy
    Outlook relativized due to COVID-19
    Timeline for spin-off of energy business confirmed
    Share buyback on hold due to spin-off
    Spin-off of Flender planned

Despite the clear impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, Siemens AG performed solidly in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Revenue remained nearly unchanged, while net income declined to €697 million compared to the strong prior-year quarter. Orders were down primarily due to a lower volume from major orders at Siemens Mobility year-over-year. In view of the current situation, Siemens will no longer confirm its original guidance for fiscal 2020. Nonetheless, the company sees itself well positioned both operationally and strategically for the coming quarters. Implementation of Siemens’ Vision 2020+ strategy is right on track, and the company is making faster progress than expected in achieving its cost targets.
Press Release | 08. May 2020 | Siemens AG
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q2 FY 2020

    Revenue was €14.2 billion, nearly level with the same quarter a year ago, as increases at Siemens Healthineers and Mobility offset a decline at Digital Industries; orders declined 8%, to €15.1 billion, on sharply lower volume from large orders at Mobility
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue declined 1% and orders came in 9% lower; the book-to-bill ratio of 1.06 remained well above one
    Adjusted EBITA Industrial Businesses was significantly lower at €1.6 billion, with all industrial businesses showing effects from the COVID-19 pandemic; Adjusted EBITA margin Industrial Businesses of 12.1% was held back also by severance charges of €0.2 billion, taking 1.2 percentage points
    Net income, including a loss of €0.3 billion from discontinued operations, was €0.7 billion compared to €1.9 billion in Q2 FY 2019, which benefited from income of €0.2 billion from discontinued operations as well as a lower tax rate; basic earnings per share (EPS) declined to €0.80
    Given the current situation, we can no longer confirm our original guidance for fiscal 2020; for our new guidance, see page 5 of this document

At the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020, Gas and Power and Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) were classified as held for disposal and discontinued operations. Prior-period amounts are presented on a comparable basis. 
Press Release | 07. May 2020 | Siemens AG
Siemens body temperature solution minimizes infection risk in buildings

    Contactless temperature measurement at main entry points in buildings
    Integrates into workflow of existing security and access solutions
    Increases protection of building occupants 

Siemens Smart Infrastructure announced the launch of Siveillance Thermal Shield. This solution package quickly measures the body temperature of a person seeking to access a building and enables the results to be integrated into the video and access systems of corporations. Thermal imaging cameras are used to measure, in a contactless way, the body temperature at a distance of up to two meters, ensuring the safety of monitoring staff. If the camera screening indicates an elevated body temperature, a second reading must be taken using a medical thermometer to confirm the finding. 
Press Release | 06. May 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens gas turbines selected for upgrade project with Ascend Performance Materials

    Siemens Gas and Power to supply three 33-MW industrial gas turbines to Ascend’s Decatur, Alabama facility 
    The project will enable the chemical materials manufacturer to increase operating efficiency and reduce its environmental footprint 

Siemens Gas and Power was recently selected to provide three 33-megawatt (MW) SGT-700 industrial gas turbines, including a Long-Term Program (LTP), with Ascend Performance Materials’ nylon intermediate and specialty chemicals facility in Decatur, Alabama. This project will allow Ascend Performance Materials to retire assets that currently provide  process steam for the facility. The shift to gas turbines for steam generation is part of Ascend’s long-term sustainability strategy to improve its environmental footprint and accelerate the growth of expanding its core businesses.
Press Release | 06. May 2020 | Gas and Power
Siemens contributes control and power supply technology to the Andalucía Respira project

    The research project was led by the Government of the Spanish Region of Andalusia, the Málaga Institute for Biomedical Research (IBIMA), a medical team from the Málaga hospitals “Regional Universitario” and “Virgen de la Victoria”, and the University of Málaga.
    Siemens Digital Industries provided the main control unit, including Logo!, the HMI operator panel and the Sitop power supply.
    The respirator has been approved by the Spanish Agency of Medicines and Medical Devices, 300 of 480 planned units are already available to patients.

Siemens Digital Industries contributed vital technology to the Andalucía Respira project, an initiative created with the aim of manufacturing respirators to fight COVID-19. Research was led by the Government of the Spanish Region of Andalusia, together with the Málaga Institute for Biomedical Research (IBIMA), a medical team from the Málaga hospitals “Regional Universitario” and “Virgen de la Victoria”, and the University of Málaga.
Press Release | 05. May 2020 | Digital Industries
Revitalizing mask production
In the midst of the corona pandemic, Siemens employees quickly succeeded in reviving a production line for respiratory masks of the manufacturer of medical devices Chengdu Wenjianlikang Medical Supplies Co., Ltd. Also with the support of Siemens, eight Chineses OEM are now able to produce mask production equipment with a capacity of 58 million masks daily.
News | 04. May 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility sells 1,000th Vectron locomotive

    Made in Munich: Locomotive factory in Munich-Allach delivers to 49 customers in 16 countries
    Anniversary locomotive goes to Danish State Railways
    Platform concept enables sustainable and flexible operation

Siemens Mobility has just sold its 1,000th Vectron locomotive. The anniversary locomotive was ordered by Danish State Railways (DSB). The first Vectron was delivered in 2012, and all locomotives have been built at the Siemens Mobility factory in Munich-Allach. The order from DSB is for eight AC Vectrons. To date, a total of 1,003 Vectrons have been sold to 49 customers in 16 countries.
Press Release | 03. May 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Bangkok Blue Line Extension Officially Opens for Full Passenger Revenue Service

    Siemens Mobility provided rolling stock, rail infrastructure, system integration, and will take care of service and maintenance
    Delivered and installed 35 new three-car trains, 19 new stations, and 28 km of additional track
    Extension provides greater capacity and enhanced passenger experience 

Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand (MRTA), Bangkok Expressway and Metro Public Company Limited (BEM) and CH. Karnchang Public Company Limited have officially implemented full passenger revenue service for the Blue Line Extension. In support of this project, Siemens Mobility integrated turnkey services delivered 35 three-car metro trains, installed the signaling, built the traction power supply, developed a passenger information system, implemented a SCADA system, provided depot workshop equipment, and instituted system integration by incorporating the telecommunications and platform screen door systems provided by ST Electronics Thailand into the project. In addition to delivering the overall project management, going forward, Siemens Mobility will also provide maintenance for 10 years. The fully completed Blue Line Extension adds 28-kilometers of track, 19 new stations, and an additional 35 three-car trains. The completed extension will now allow the Blue Line to carry approximately 500,000 passengers per day and seamlessly connects the Thonburi side of the Chao Phraya river to the rest of the city which suffers from traffic congestion.
Press Release | 30. Apr 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Bangkok – New Era of Rail-Bound Rapid Transit
The breath-taking rise of Bangkok to become a leading business center in Asia created a basic challenge for the city to ensure the mobility of millions of people. Before 1999, people used to take a bus, motorcycle or taxi for almost 80 per cent of their daily travel needs. This created congestion in large parts of Bangkok's infrastructure, making traffic jams a daily occurrence. The travel speed in downtown Bangkok was usually less than ten kilometers per hour. This not only affected the mobility of the commuters but had also an impact on the quality of life. Without a working rapid transit and mainline traffic concept, Thailand's capital was bound to grind to a standstill.
Feature | 30. Apr 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens selected to supply compression equipment for pipeline expansion project in Texas

    Two SGT-400 gas turbine compression packages sold for U.S. pipeline service

Siemens Gas and Power was awarded a contract to supply two SGT-400 gas turbine compression packages for Midcoast Energy, LLC’s CJ Express pipeline expansion project in east Texas. WHC Energy Services, supported by Universal Pegasus International, will be the engineering, procurement and contracting (EPC) provider for the pipeline expansion project.
Press Release | 29. Apr 2020 | Gas and Power
New basic unit for easy diagnostics and setup of power supply systems

    Single-phase 480-watt basic unit expands Sitop PSU8600 product line
    Four integrated monitored outputs of five amperes each (DC 24 V, 20 A/4x5)
    Modular expansion for monitoring up to 36 outputs
    Comprehensive diagnostic and maintenance information via integrated Ethernet/Profinet interfaces

Siemens is expanding its modular Sitop PSU8600 power supply system to include a new single-phase 480-watt basic unit. The new product features four integrated monitored outputs with a total of 24 volts DC at five amperes per output. Each output is flexible and can be set during operation in a range between 4 and 28 volts either manually or remotely via software. This eliminates the need for additional power supply units to supply five or twelve volt loads. The CNX8600 expansion module can be used to monitor up to 36 total outputs. Thanks to its integration into the TIA (Totally Integrated Automation) Portal engineering framework, fast implementation in to the automation is supported. In addition, the Sitop Manager provides easy parameterization and diagnostics. Comprehensive diagnostic and maintenance information are also available via the two integrated Ethernet/Profinet interfaces and via OPC UA, and can be evaluated directly in the automation systems. This means that errors can be located quickly and reduces downtime. 
Press Release | 26. Apr 2020 | Digital Industries
Learning in the digital age
Siemens is expanding its Sitrain Digital Industry Academy offer to include the new digital learning offer Sitrain access. The digital learning platform for online training supports learners at any time and in any location. Various courses are delivered via web-based training, tutorial videos, blended learning and practical exercises. When combined with the methodical use of multimedia, tests, and the interaction with other participates and Sitrain experts, this ensures an optimum learning outcome. The employee’s learning outcome is also transparent for the company. 
News | 26. Apr 2020 | Digital Industries
Sacramento orders 20 light rail vehicles from Siemens Mobility

    Latest generation S700 low-floor light rail vehicles
    Manufactured in the Siemens Mobility Sacramento plant 

Siemens Mobility has been awarded a contract from the U.S. operator Sacramento Regional Transit (SacRT) for 20 new light rail vehicles (LRVs). This is the first new order from Sacramento since the late 1980s, when SacRT ordered 36 U2A vehicles from Siemens Mobility. The contract, including the 20 trains, spare parts and tools is approximately US$100 million.  
Press Release | 24. Apr 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens presents new software for locating system

    New “Location Intelligence” software expands Simatic RTLS locating platform to include digital twin of performance
    Visualized real-time analyses create potential for optimization and facilitate rapid decision-making
    Provides customers with overview of material flow and order information 

Siemens introduces new “Location Intelligence” software, which expands the Simatic RTLS (Real-Time Locating System) locating platform to include the digital twin of performance. The web-based software analyzes and visualizes dynamic data, processes events, and can be addressed directly from local ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) or MES (Manufacturing Execution System) systems. The intelligence acquired based on position data provides the user with a comprehensive overview of material flow, order information or possible problem areas. 
Press Release | 22. Apr 2020 | Digital Industries
Tips and tricks by Mister Automation
With “Mister Automation”, the guy with all the answers about the Totally Integrated Automation Portal (TIA), Siemens has developed an adviser portal as a counterpart to its digitalization story. Mister Automation is personified by Tobias Schuh. He will feature in videos on YouTube and the TIA (Totally Integrated Automation) Portal website, which can also be shared via social media channels to provide an insight into TIA and the TIA Portal.  
News | 20. Apr 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens Managing Board sets up COVID-19 aid fund

    Siemens Managing Board decides to form worldwide aid fund to help relieve and combat the coronavirus pandemic
    Siemens to match all funds donated by employees
    Fund to supplement numerous aid programs already in place at international Siemens units 
    Company and employees aim to help people stricken by the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide
    Entire Managing Board joins in donation campaign
    President and CEO lays foundation by donating €1 million

Effective immediately, the Managing Board of Siemens AG has decided to set up a COVID-19 aid fund. Under the auspices of the community-serving nonprofit organization Siemens Caring Hands e.V. (“Caring Hands”), this aid fund is to provide support, without red tape, to relief organizations and medical facilities as well as to individuals impacted by the COVID-19 crisis worldwide.
Press Release | 14. Apr 2020 | Siemens AG
Simulation saves lives
Vyaire Medical (Vyaire) is a global market leader in the field of health technology. Their portfolio includes respiratory products for the treatment of numerous respiratory diseases. To ensure that its products are tailored as accurately as possible to the individual situation of the relevant patient, Vyaire uses precise models based on scans of actual human heads during development. Another essential aspect for the efficient development process is the digital twin of products, which Vyaire creates using software solutions from Siemens Digital Industries Software. This enables the company to largely eliminate physical prototypes, which saves time and money. 
News | 14. Apr 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens and 16 other global companies support cybersecurity for telework

    Charter of Trust companies are helping with cybersecurity for telework
    Some 130,000 Siemens employees worldwide are working from home due to the corona crisis

To slow the spread of the coronavirus, millions of people around the world have been working from home for about three weeks now – including more than 100,000 Siemens employees. Siemens and 16 other global companies from the Charter of Trust (CoT) initiative have developed eight tips for boosting cybersecurity so that employees can work just as securely from home as they do at the office. Their recommendations are meant to help ward off hacker attacks and enable companies to maintain business continuity. These tips range from switching off voice-controlled devices and covering webcams to not mixing personal and business use of devices. All recommendations have been published on the Charter of Trust website: bit.ly/39BB8Gv.
Press Release | 08. Apr 2020 | Siemens AG
eHighway – Solutions for electrified road freight transport
Shifting freight transport to rail has its limitations. Therefore, a share of this transport will need to be carried out by trucks that combine reliable service with minimum environmental impact. The eHighway system is twice as efficient as conventional internal combustion engines. This Siemens Mobility innovation supplies trucks with power from an overhead contact line. This reduces local air pollution and contributes significantly to the decarbonization of the transport sector. 
Feature | 08. Apr 2020 | Siemens AG, Siemens Mobility
Siemens and Uniper join forces to decarbonize power generation

    Cooperation agreement on using “green hydrogen” and promoting sector coupling
    Joint projects for the conversion of power plants
    Share of “green gas” to be gradually increased

Today, Uniper and Siemens Gas and Power signed a cooperation agreement for the development of projects on the decarbonization of power generation and promoting sector coupling. It extends the long-standing partnership between the two companies. It is important to look at the energy, mobility and industry sectors together, because they all can and must contribute to reducing greenhouse gases. One focus of the planned cooperation is the production and use of “green hydrogen” – in other words, hydrogen from renewable energy sources. The companies intend to implement projects in this field together, addressing the entire value chain. 
Press Release | 08. Apr 2020 | Gas and Power
The Charter of Trust takes a major step forward to advance cybersecurity
At the Munich Security Conference 2018, Siemens and eight partners from industry signed the first joint charter for greater cybersecurity. Initiated by Siemens, the Charter of Trust calls for binding rules and standards to build trust in cybersecurity and further advance digitalization. Since 2018, the Charter of Trust has grown to 16 members. In addition to Siemens and the Munich Security Conference, the signatories include AES, Airbus, Allianz, Atos, Cisco, Daimler, Dell Technologies, Deutsche Telekom, IBM, NXP, SGS, Total and TÜV Süd. In addition, the German Federal Office for Information Security, the CCN National Cryptologic Center of Spain and the Graz University of Technology in Austria have joined the charter as associate members. On February 19, 2019, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) signed a letter of intent to join the Charter of Trust for cybersecurity in Tokyo, expanding the Charter’s reach into Asia. The company’s membership is expected to be finalized by the end of September 2019. MHI will be the first Asian company to join the global cybersecurity initiative.
Feature | 07. Apr 2020 | Siemens AG
Siemens offers new solution for diverse requirements in network management

    New Sinec software family offers a range of functions for efficient network management 
    Quick and easy initialization of Scalance and Ruggedcom network components with Sinec PNI commissioning tool
    Central network services at a glance with Sinec INS
    New version V1.0 SP1 of Sinec NMS can also be used to manage security-related areas in the network

With the new Sinec software family, Siemens offers a range of functions in the field of network management. The Sinec software family meets the diverse requirements of a modern industrial network and helps users to overcome the challenges of digitalization, such as the ever-growing number of network devices as well as the security and clarity of increasingly complex networks. Alongside the Sinec NMS Network Management System, two additional Sinec tools – Sinec INS and Sinec PNI – offer even more options for comprehensive network management. 
Press Release | 06. Apr 2020 | Digital Industries
Improved simulation time and accuracy
Siemens Digital Industries Software is expanding its Simcenter portfolio to include a new release of STAR-CCM+ software. Simcenter STAR-CCM+ supports multiphysics simulations of products and designs under real conditions. The new release includes major enhancements to improve simulation time and accuracy. Users also have a comprehensive digital twin to help drive highly predictive simulations. This enhanced version introduces new parallel polyhedral meshers for faster, more effective meshing. The software update also offers the industry’s first model-driven adaptive mesh refinement (AMR) solution. 
News | 05. Apr 2020 | Digital Industries
New 80 GHz compact radar transmitters for hassle-free level measurement

    Compact radar extends transmitters into applications with vapor and dusty requirements 
    Bluetooth wireless technology delivers fast and effortless commissioning
    Wide range of liquids and solids applications in practically all market segments including energy, mining, aggregates and water

Siemens presents Sitrans LR100 series 80 GHz radar transmitters, compact instruments with a narrow beam for flexible installations in existing vessel openings—or even non-intrusively through plastic vessels. The transmitters’ 80GHz high frequency delivers robust, reliable measurements even in challenging environments such as those with vapors, condensation, turbulence, or solids. The custom microchip technology delivers fast response and extremely high sensitivity to detect even the weakest of signals. 
Press Release | 02. Apr 2020 | Digital Industries
High-tech battles viruses
In just one week, Siemens and Aucma have developed an idea into a prototype for an intelligent disinfection robot, which will soon join the battle against Coronavirus and other viruses in hospitals. The electric robot can disinfect up to 36,000 square meters in one hour and features a robust chassis that can overcome obstacles and navigate slopes. 
News | 30. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens connects healthcare providers and medical designers to produce components through additive manufacturing

    Siemens opens its Additive Manufacturing Network to enable the efficient execution of design and printing requests by doctors, hospitals and suppliers of medical equipment in response to COVID-19 pandemic
    Siemens’ designers and engineers are a part of the AM Network to answer design requests
    Designers, engineers and service providers with 3D printers can offer expertise through the AM Network

In response to the ongoing global health crisis caused by the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus, Siemens is making its Additive Manufacturing (AM) Network along with its 3D printers, available to the global medical community to speed design and production of medical components. The AM Network connects users, designers and 3D-print service providers to enable faster and less complicated production of spare parts for machines like ventilators. The Siemens AM network is available globally and covers the entire value chain – from upload and simulation to checking the design up to the printing process and associated services. 
Press Release | 26. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
The foundation for secure networks
Siemens has received TÜV certification in compliance with IEC 62443-4-2 and -4-1 (standards for IT security in industrial automation systems) for network components in the Scalance XB-200, XC-200, XP-200, XF-200BA and XR-300WG product families. The certification demonstrates that the product development process previously certified in compliance with IEC 62443-4-1 has been consequently applied during product development. It also confirms that key technical product requirements stipulated by IEC 62443-4-2 have been taken into account and implemented in the network components. Customers are therefore able to realize secure system architectures, which clearly increases the overall security of a plant.
News | 24. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
New reader with maximum sensor resolution
Siemens is expanding its high-end Simatic MV500 series of optical readers to include the Simatic MV560 X. With 5.3 megapixels, the device features the highest resolution in the product family. Like the MV560 U model, the MV560 X has two separate Ethernet ports and a working memory of 2 Gigabytes. Due to the high image resolution, the new device is ideal for reading particularly small codes in large image fields or numerous codes on large objects. In addition, the Simatic MV560 X can be used to implement completely new applications – even on fast-running production lines. A large number of images can also be stored directly on the camera without problems.
News | 22. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Conference Call – March 2020
Siemens is setting the course for establishing the next generation of management. To this end, the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has made pivotal personnel decisions at an extraordinary meeting.
Munich | 20. Mar 2020 - 20. Mar 2020 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens sets course for establishing next generation of management

    Joe Kaeser is not pursuing a further contract extension as President and CEO of Siemens AG and is to be proposed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy.
    Roland Busch has been named President and CEO of Siemens AG and is receiving a new contract for an additional five years. He is already to assume overarching responsibility for the Operating Companies Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure and Mobility as of April 1, 2020.
    Christian Bruch, EVP at Linde plc, to become new CEO of the Gas and Power Operating Company and designated CEO of Siemens Energy.
    Maria Ferraro, CFO of the Digital Industries Operating Company, to become new CFO of Gas and Power and designated CFO of Siemens Energy.
    Michael Sen and Klaus Patzak to leave the company by mutual agreement.
    Spinoff and public listing of Siemens Energy at end of September 2020 being pursued on schedule and without change.

Siemens is setting the course for establishing the next generation of management. To this end, the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has made pivotal personnel decisions at an extraordinary meeting today. Siemens President and CEO Joe Kaeser (62) has informed the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG that he will not be pursuing an extension of his contract. He will be proposed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy. The Supervisory Board has appointed Roland Busch (55), who is currently Deputy CEO, to be President and CEO of Siemens AG. At the latest, this appointment is to be effective at the end of the next ordinary Annual Shareholders’ meeting, which is to take place on February 3, 2021. He is receiving a new contract for five years, effective April 1, 2020. In this connection, he will already be responsible for the planning and implementation of the budget for fiscal 2021 and will be assuming all relevant responsibilities within the Managing Board. In addition to his current duties, Roland Busch will – effective April 1, 2020 – also already be responsible for the overarching integration and management of the businesses of the future Siemens AG (Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries and Mobility) within the Siemens Managing Board. 
Press Release | 19. Mar 2020 | Siemens AG
Outstanding solutions
Siemens has been named a leading supplier of production software in a study conducted by renowned experts at ABI Research. ABI, a global tech market advisory firm, particularly praised the diversity of the Siemens offer, which includes software, hardware, and technology. With solutions from its integrated Xcelerator portfolio, Siemens supports its customers with digital transformation, helping them to better meet future production requirements. 
News | 17. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens unveils UK's first converted 'Electric Avenue'

    Sutherland Avenue is UK’s first residential avenue fully converted to provide lamppost electric vehicle charging points
    Conversions address growing demand for electric vehicles, add 24 charging points
    Helps Westminster reach its thousand charge point target for 2020

Siemens has unveiled the UK’s first avenue, which is over half a mile in length, that has been fully converted to cater for electric vehicle (EV) charging, coined ‘Electric Avenue, W9’. 
Press Release | 17. Mar 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens Mobility receives first order for battery-powered trains

    20 Mireo Plus B battery-powered trains for Baden-Württemberg
    Maintenance contract for 29.5 years
    Delivery of trains by June 2023

Landesanstalt Schienenfahrzeuge Baden-Württemberg (SFBW) has ordered 20 Mireo Plus B trains from Siemens Mobility. The two-car electric trainsets with 120 seats can operate on rail routes with or without overhead power lines thanks to their battery hybrid drive, and are scheduled to operate in Network 8 of the Ortenau regional system. The contract also includes maintenance of the trains by Siemens Mobility for a period of just under 30 years. State Minister for Transport Winfried Hermann said: “This marks the first time battery-powered trains will be used in the state. With this innovative technology, the electrification of rail routes without continuous overhead power lines will also be possible.” 
Press Release | 17. Mar 2020 | Siemens Mobility
The new Mireo – Intelligence on rails
Feature | 16. Mar 2020 | Siemens AG, Siemens Mobility
Siemens receives third order from Belarus for SGT-800 gas turbines

    Five industrial gas turbines for peak load and backup power plant
    Strengthening the power grid

For the third time in three months, Siemens has received an order from Belarus to supply SGT-800 industrial gas turbines. The new order covers five gas turbines, including associated auxiliary and electrical systems, for a peak load and backup power plant. The new plant will be built at the existing power plant location of the Berezovskaya combined heat and power plant in Beloozersk, Brest Region, in the south-western part of the country. The order was placed by Brest Republican Unitary Enterprise of Electricity Industry (Brestenergo). With an electrical capacity of 254 megawatts, the new plant will help further strengthen the power grid’s reliability and stability. Commissioning is scheduled for December 2021.
Press Release | 15. Mar 2020 | Gas and Power
Instrument making 4.0
The Associazione Liutaria Italiana (Italian Association of Stringed Instrument Makers) is a cultural association comprising instrument makers, researchers, and musicians. The aim of the association is the conservation of period instruments and the development of their modern counterparts. To achieve this, the team based around Professor Enrico Ravina from the Polytechnic School of Genoa University and engineer Paolo Sivestri has relied on solutions from the Siemens Digital Industries Software portfolio for over ten years. The experts investigate the sound quality of period stringed instruments and feed information back to modern instrument manufacturers to improve production. This is based on acoustic measurements and other instrument data captured by Siemens solutions. The experts are now working on producing a digital twin which will allow, among other things, old instruments to be faithfully reproduced for research purposes.
News | 15. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Florian Martens to join Siemens as new Head of Global Media Relations and Executive Communications

    Successor to Robin Zimmermann, new Head of Communications at Siemens Energy
    Overall responsibility for global media relations and coordination of Managing Board communications
    Many years of international communications experience and extensive media network

Florian Martens (42) has been appointed the new Head of Global Media Relations and Executive Communications at Siemens AG, effective June 15, 2020. He succeeds Robin Zimmermann (49), who is now the Head of Communications at Siemens Energy. In addition to global media relations, Martens will be responsible for coordinating the Managing Board’s executive communications. 
Press Release | 13. Mar 2020 | Siemens AG
Siemens visualization controller combines all-in-one functions for customized room comfort

    Increased security through encrypted data transmission and extended password protection
    Timer program for presence simulation
    Control of SONOS speakers and Philips HUE LED lighting system

IP Control Center (IPCC) N 152, Siemens Smart Infrastructure’s compact visualization controller designed to control standard rooms and complex building management functions in small and medium-sized commercial buildings, is now available with new V4 firmware. The updated IPCC combines more functionalities for customized system integration and installation as well as maximum building and data protection without having to rely on additional software. Extended security measures, such as encrypted data transmission and presence simulation as well as other functional options such as individual scene settings, have also been implemented. In addition, new interfaces enable the control of SONOS loudspeakers and the Philips HUE lighting system. As part of the GAMMA instabus building control portfolio, a range of products based on the international KNX standard, the new IPCC visualization controller makes it possible to control KNX devices faster and more easily. It provides intuitive operation and display of KNX systems on a customizable, fully graphical user interface for controlling standard room functions as well as complex building management functions from a central panel, PC or mobile device.
Press Release | 12. Mar 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Intralogistics
Increasing stock turnover frequency with shorter storage periods, small order quantities with high delivery speeds, rising return rates and short-term increases in delivery quantities. In the course of digitalization, the intralogistics industry is also facing new challenges. With its Digital Enterprise Portfolio, Siemens supports highly efficient, flexible and intelligent applications in intralogistics. Siemens is thus supporting its customers, both machine builders and operators of logistics centers, on the path towards digital transformation. Using a digital twin for material transport equipment, warehouse operation and performance, the entire value chain is designed and optimized efficiently. This increases efficiency throughout the building and operation of machines and plants, minimizes error rates and downtimes, shortens development times and ensures long-term competitiveness. Through the seamless interaction of the real and virtual world, the technology company helps to increase the productivity and flexibility of plants while keeping costs and energy consumption to a minimum.  The unique portfolio from Siemens for digital transformation, the Digital Enterprise Suite, offers an integrated portfolio of software-based systems and automation technologies. The concept of the digital twin provides a closed connection between the virtual world of planning for warehousing and conveying technology and its physical world of operating and performance. Thus, it can be started at any point of the value chain, starting with the design of the logistics concept up to operation planning, operation technology, operation execution and services, and expand the digitalization process step by step.  The portfolio for intralogistics includes software solutions and automation systems for core applications such as stacker cranes or shuttle warehouses, solutions for tasks in internal industrial logistics and sorting technology as well as solutions for parcel, postal and airport logistics. 
Feature | 11. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Plant Intelligence options for WinCC Unified system

    New Plant Intelligence options, fully integrated in WinCC Unified, available on tablet or PC
    “Performance Insight” option for simple display and calculation of key performance indicators (KPIs)
    Create and visualize structured planning of production processes with the "Calendar" option

Siemens launches two new Plant Intelligence options for the WinCC Unified system: The “Performance Insight” and “Calendar” options extend the WinCC Unified visualization system with functionality for more transparency and structured planning in the production processes. The additional options can be individually combined according to application requirements and are fully integrated in the system, so that all functions are available to the user on various devices such as tablet or PC. By using the information thus obtained and planning ahead, costs can be reduced, and rejects avoided. In addition, production facilities can be better utilized, which increases effectiveness and efficiency.
Press Release | 11. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
New Siemens KNX actuator enhances cost and energy efficiency for DALI lighting control

    Higher light comfort due to energy-saving switching and dimming of up to 20 DALI ECGs per channel in broadcast mode
    Personalized control with “tunable white” for Human Centric Lighting (HCL)
    Easy installation, low maintenance expenses and energy efficient switching and dimming

Siemens Smart Infrastructure is launching its new KNX switch and dim actuator N 525D11, 2x DALI Broadcast. The rail-mounted device for installation in distribution boards has two Digital Addressable Lighting Interface (DALI) outputs. Thanks to a control performance of up to 20 DALI electrical ballasts (ECG) per DALI output, the new actuator offers energy efficiency and low commissioning costs during broadcast mode where all connected ECG, for example lamps, are controlled simultaneously. The new device has a wide range of functions to increase comfort for room users, such as color temperature control and configurable dimming curves. In addition, the actuator is able to store light scenes, send status or error messages, and provide switching cycles as well as an operating hour counter. The new device offers the best conditions for optimum lighting ratios in the room. In combination with presence detectors, which control brightness fully automatically, a simultaneous control of brightness and color temperature can be achieved.
Press Release | 11. Mar 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Reliable power supply
At the Hannover Messe 2020, Hall 9, Booth D35, Siemens is presenting four new Sitop selectivity modules for the reliable protection of 24-volt load circuits. Complementing the existing Sitop SEL1200 and SEL1400 modules with eight outputs of ten amperes (A) output current, the new versions of both modules offer 4x10 amperes and 8x5 amperes, which means they can be tailored more precisely to the system. In addition, comprehensive diagnostic functions simplify handling and troubleshooting in the event of an error.
News | 11. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Simove automation platform expanded to include omnidirectional driving module

    New software for omnidirectional control
    360-degree freedom of movement for AGVs
    Innovative steering system implemented with ebm-papst

Siemens has expanded Simove, the scalable automation solution for Automated Guided Vehicle (AGV) applications, to include functionality for omnidirectional control. The new software supports unrestricted freedom of movement for AGVs. Together with Simatic Micro-Drive, the new member of the Siemens converter family specifically for the safety extra-low voltage range, plant and machine builders can create universal and flexible systems. Together with partner ebm-papst an initial application example has been realized: a steering system that uses Simatic Micro-Drive, the universal Simatic controller and the new control software from Simove. The compact steering system features a special gearbox where the speeds of both motors in the steering system are overlaid. This means that the steering system does not require moving cables. The result is 360-degree rotational movement of the wheel and therefore of the system. In addition, the high transmission in the driving and steering direction provides a high level of control accuracy for the system. Thanks to the integrated safety functions of the Simatic Micro-Drive, safe control and monitoring of the integrated motors is ensured at all times.
Press Release | 10. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
New Alpha 3200 Eco power distribution board requires 30 percent less copper

    Reduced amount of copper lowers material costs
    Smart ventilation system ensures optimal heat dissipation
    Digital engineering and new system concept shorten project lead times for switchgear manufacturers

Siemens Smart Infrastructure introduces the Alpha 3200 Eco power distribution board. Thanks to a new system, it requires one-third less copper. The new power distribution board features a main busbar in the middle of the board instead of at the top or the bottom, allowing devices to be attached directly. Previously, additional connection rails made of copper were needed. This new design significantly reduces material costs and installation efforts. It also allows for more flexible installation of the associated Alpha assembly kits with protection, switching and measuring devices. Overall, this results in more room for valuable functions, such as collecting energy data and switching states, as well as for connecting the power distribution board to digital building management systems. A new ventilation system with two cooling circuits provides for optimal heat dissipation and energy yield.
Press Release | 10. Mar 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Precise positioning, quick device exchange
Siemens is expanding its portfolio for industrial identification to include three Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) stainless steel antennas - ANT 12, ANT 18 and ANT 30. The cost-effective, compact round antennas can be connected to the proven Simatic RF250R and RF350R RFID readers as well as to the handheld Simatic RF350M and have a reading range of up to 60 millimeters. The antennas can be positioned very precisely in the plant and are used primarily in small assembly lines as well as for tool identification.  
News | 09. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens presents expanded Digital Enterprise portfolio for the next step in digital transformation

    Integration of cutting-edge technologies into the Digital Enterprise portfolio enables flexible and intelligent production

With its Digital Enterprise, Siemens is taking the next step of the digital transformation – on the way to highly flexible modular production. Siemens presents numerous innovations for the discrete and process industries as well as for energy and building infrastructure. The integration of cutting-edge technologies such as edge and cloud computing, artificial intelligence or additive manufacturing into the portfolio offers users new opportunities to achieve more flexible and intelligent production. Communicative networking through Industrial 5G plays a key role. 
Press Release | 04. Mar 2020 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Industrial 5G – The Wireless Network of the Future
Smartphone users as well as industrial companies are looking forward to the advent of the new 5G wireless mobile standard, thanks to which companies will be able to connect their machines and thus make their production plants and intralogistics operations more efficient, more autonomous, and more flexible than ever before. Industrie 4.0, the smart factory, the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) – these are the future of industrial manufacturing. Designing production plants and intralogistics to be more flexible, autonomous, and efficient requires the right communication framework and comprehensive connectivity. The new 5G communication standard opens up important new prospects. It will initially have a data speed of between one and 5 gigabits per second, subsequently increasing to 20 gigabits per second – a quantum leap that will make it between 10 and 20 times faster than the system’s predecessor, LTE.
Feature | 04. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens Press Conference Digital Industries 2020
In an era of consumer-oriented production and economic uncertainty, industrial companies are constantly facing new challenges. We're integrating cutting-edge technologies like artificial intelligence, Edge and Cloud computing, and Industrial 5G into the Digital Enterprise. This is how we're enabling the intelligence that’s required for the production of customized products.  On Wednesday, March 4, the CEOs of Digital Industries presented technological innovations as well as current product highlights. They showed numerous specific examples to demonstrate how companies need to think and act in ecosystems in order to implement Industrie 4.0. We also demonstrated how we’re combining the latest technologies with our domain expertise to make our solutions for the digital transformation more and more market-specific. 
Hanover | 04. Mar 2020 - 04. Mar 2020 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries Save the date
Siemens Industrial Edge makes drive systems more intelligent

    Concept study demonstrates the integration of Sinamics frequency converters to the Siemens Industrial Edge platform
    High-frequency data exchange and complex analysis of the drive train possible
    Paving the way for new business models

At the Hannover Messe 2020, Siemens presents a concept study that demonstrates the integration of a Sinamics drive system to the Siemens Industrial Edge platform. In future, it will be possible to perform high-frequency data exchange in drive technology using an Edge device. The integration of Sinamics frequency converters to an Edge device enables users of machines and applications to perform complex analyses of data that is already collected in the drive. Machine learning algorithms identify patterns and detect anomalies and their causes, providing early indications of necessary maintenance. This minimizes downtimes and reduces the consumption of resources. For example, in intralogistics applications the belt tension can be monitored for a storage and retrieval machine. The belts, which are driven by a motor and frequency converter, require a specific tension so that the application runs smoothly. If the visualization of the data analyses shows irregularities in the drive system, then belt maintenance can be triggered promptly, for example.
Press Release | 04. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens supports Volkswagen to develop digitized electric car production

    Volkswagen's first new generation electric car being built with Siemens automation technology 
    Together with Volkswagen, Siemens is developing a standard for the upcoming Volkswagen electric car generation
    Volkswagen aims to increase the degree of automation in the body shop to 89 percent and to 28 percent in final assembly 

Siemens is supporting Volkswagen with equipping its Zwickau vehicle plant for the production of electric cars. The company has already supplied products and systems for the two production lines and helped develop an automation standard for the versatile mass production of a range of different models. “We want to increase the degree of automation in our production processes while simultaneously reducing complexity. We’ve chosen to work with Siemens, our long-standing partner and one of the leading companies in industrial automation and digitalization, because they have the necessary application expertise in this area,” said Thomas Zembok, Head of Factory Automation and Digital Production at the Volkswagen AG company.
Press Release | 04. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Simatic ET 200MP / Simatic S7-1500 IO: Easy migration without detours

    Simatic S7-1500/ET 200MP peripheral modules with 64 channels
    Reduced footprint through high channel density
    Hot swapping: Module replacement during operation enabled by new active backplane bus
    Short installation times with system cabling Simatic TOP Connect 

Siemens is expanding its distributed I/O system with new modules for the Simatic ET 200MP/Simatic S7-1500 IOs as well as a backplane bus. A total of four new multi-channel digital modules, with 64 channels each and an installation width of 35 millimeters, enables users to achieve space-saving and cost-efficient implementation of a high number of channels in the control cabinet. This reduces the footprint of their Simatic S7-1500 stations. Particularly existing systems on the basis of Simatic S7-300/ET 200M are easy to migrate to the new Simatic S7-1500 systems with the new portfolio. Hot-swapping of modules is also possible in combination with the new active backplane bus for the Simatic S7-1500 or Simatic ET 200MP. This means that users can replace any faulty Simatic ET 200MP modules during the CPU runtime, i.e. during ongoing plant operation, while non-affected modules remain operational, thus increasing your plant availability. The new portfolio makes the Simatic ET 200MP ideal for use in the process environment together with Simatic S7-1500R/H systems since it promotes high channel density and high levels of availability.With the Simatic TOP Connect system cabling, users also benefit from short installation times for the new digital modules since no tools are required.
Press Release | 03. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
New Siemens gateway between cloud, in-company IT and production

    Simatic IOT2050 gateway designed for industrial IT solutions directly in the production plant 
    Future edge functionality for integration in Siemens Industrial Edge solutions 
    Open platform acquires, processes and transfers production data to a cloud system
    Wide range of communication options und easy connection to MindSphere, the open, cloud-based, IoT operating system from Siemens

Siemens is launching a gateway based on the TI ARM processor family which links cloud, in-company IT and production. Simatic IOT2050 is designed for industrial IT solutions for the acquisition, processing and transfer of data directly in the production environment. It can be used for connecting the production process to a cloud-based analysis of machine and production data, for example. The new IOT gateway will also be equipped with remote edge functionality for easy integration into Siemens Industrial Edge solutions. 
Press Release | 03. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
More functions for optimum simulation
Siemens Digital Industries Software is expanding its Simcenter portfolio for simulation and test solutions with a new version of its Simcenter 3D software. This features optimizations in terms of multidisciplinary integration, CAE (Computer-aided Engineering) processes, testing and analysis functions as well as openness and scalability. These software improvements and expansions offer users an even deeper insight into product performance, enabling them to make their company more profitable and fit for the future. Simcenter 3D and the Simcenter portfolio are part of the Xcelerator product range, the integrated Siemens package comprising software, services and an application development platform.
News | 03. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Logo! goes cloud

    Logo! logic module series 8.3 now with direct cloud connectivity
    Guided setup for cloud connection with Logo! Soft Comfort 8.3 
    Logo! Web Editor V2.0 with extended functionality

Siemens is presenting the new version of the logic module series Logo! for the first time at Hannover Messe 2020: The latest Logo! Version 8.3 will be available from Fall 2020 and features a direct cloud connection. The Logo! Soft Comfort engineering software is getting a functional update to enable  configuration of the new devices. With Version 8.3, it is possible to activate and configure the cloud connection  and use the new free Logo!  web editor to create user-defined website and dashboards in the cloud. Users can also design their automation projects and operate them from the cloud via smartphone, tablet or PC. The webserver can be directly hosted in the cloud,  enabling individual visualization and centralized control of switching and automation solutions in building management systems, and in the construction of control cabinets, machines and apparatus – comfortably, regardless of the location. Users now have even more options for simple networking.
Press Release | 03. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
BYD and Siemens form strategic partnership to enable digital transformation

    Siemens’ Xcelerator portfolio will help support BYD in their transformation to a digital enterprise

Siemens Digital Industries Software announces a strategic partnership with BYD, a Chinese manufacturer and leader in the automotive and new energy industries. With this partnership, BYD plans to build a digital enterprise strategy using the full scope of Siemens’ solutions. Using these solutions, BYD will be able to use digital twins to provide detailed insight into all aspects of decision-making for product development and production operations. By connecting these digital twins with a consistent digital thread, BYD can realize the power and flexibility to speed up development, optimize manufacturing and use the insight gained from product and plant operations to improve future performance.
Press Release | 02. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Reader for customized design
Siemens is expanding its Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) portfolio in the Simatic RF1000 family to include the new Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) version of the proven Simatic RF1070R reader with neutral housing and non-glued neutral front foil. This allows users to create customer-specific designs of the foil and fabricate them worldwide. Or alternatively  to place the reader without a company reference with the enclosed neutral front foil. 
News | 01. Mar 2020 | Digital Industries
Tailored remote terminal units
Siemens is expanding the possible uses of Simatic remote terminal units through firmware updates for the Telecontrol communications processors (CPs). With the new versions it is possible to create substations, which can handle a larger number of process values. This opens up additional possible uses for modular Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) in Telecontrol applications.
News | 27. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens ranks No. 1 vendor for managing distributed energy resources
Market research firm Navigant Research has recently ranked Siemens Smart Infrastructure as a leading provider of distributed energy resources management systems (DERMS). The “Navigant Research Leaderboard: DERMS Vendors” report assessed the strategy and execution of 16 vendors for distributed energy resources and grid management.
Press Release | 27. Feb 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Enhanced electromagnetic-vibro-acoustic analysis
Siemens Digital Industries Software extends its Simcenter/Xcelerator portfolio to include new enhanced electromagnetic-vibro-acoustic analysis functions. The new releases of Simcenter Magnet and Simcenter Motorsolve provide a seamless solution for the optimization of noise and vibration development for electric traction motors. This includes for example a wide range of options for the integration of real-world conditions into simulations. The Xcelerator portfolio is helping automotive companies to significantly accelerate the development and innovation process for their vehicles. 
News | 25. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
Bulgarian Conductor wins the Siemens Hallé International Conductors Competition

    Delyana Lazarova triumphs against almost 290 competitors from 55 countries to become assistant of Sir Mark Elder CH CBE
    Lazarova wins GBP 15,000 prize money and the post of future Director of the Hallé Youth Orchestra

Bulgarian conductor Delyana Lazarova (34) is the winner of the first Siemens Hallé International Conductors Competition held in Manchester, U.K. She impressed the jury with her performance of The Force of Destiny by Verdi. A total of 287 conductors from 55 countries applied to take part in the international competition which was held this year for the first time. The ten best contenders were shortlisted, and four candidates then competed in the final last Saturday. They had to conduct the Hallé Orchestra and perform three different pieces by composers like Brahms, Dvorak or Britten in front of an international audience.
Press Release | 24. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG
Heat-resistant with very high range
Siemens is expanding its Simatic RF600 portfolio for ultra high frequency (UHF) products to include the Simatic RF682L SmartLabel. The heat-resistant, passive and maintenance-free label has a long reading range of up to six meters and withstands even extreme temperatures of up to 230 degrees Celsius in the short term without any loss of quality. In addition it has a very large storage capacity of up to 448 bits of EPC (Electronic Product Code) plus 2048 bits of user memory. On request, the shape and imprint of this label can be adapted to customer requirements.
News | 24. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens again secures favorable financing conditions

    Siemens issues bonds with a value of €4 billion and £850 million
    Demand more than double issue volume

Siemens has issued bonds with a total value of about €5 billion, around €1 billion (£850 million) of which have been issued in pound sterling. The transaction closed today. The proceeds of the issuance will be used for general corporate purposes including the refinancing of upcoming maturities. Investor demand was high. At more than €10 billion, demand was more than double the issue volume.
Press Release | 20. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG
New smart building suite enables people-centric workplace experience

    Real-time analytics to create dynamic workplaces
    Designed to improve employee productivity and operational efficiency 
    Data-driven insights on space utilization to optimize real estate assets 
    To be shown at Light & Building trade fair in Germany, Frankfurt a.M. (March 8-13, 2020)

Siemens Smart Infrastructure has launched a smart building suite designed to create more efficient and flexible workplaces where people are at the core. The suite of IoT (Internet of Things) enabled devices, applications and services turn offices into a competitive advantage for companies. Employees are empowered with greater choice and control in the workplace, including picking their own optimal temperature setting, pleasant lighting conditions and find available rooms for their spontaneous meetings. The suite consists of complementary Siemens technologies and allows building management systems to respond intelligently to user input and environmental data. Now, workspaces can adapt to employees’ needs with real-time analytics continuously learning from user input and picking up behavioral patterns. At the same time, powerful data analytics give insights into how the spaces are being used to make better decisions around space optimization and real estate portfolio management. 
Press Release | 20. Feb 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens wins compressor contract for Calcasieu Pass LNG Project
Siemens was awarded a contract to supply three boil-off compressor (BOG) packages for Venture Global’s Calcasieu Pass LNG Project. The new LNG export facility, Calcasieu Pass, is currently under construction in southwestern Louisiana’s Cameron Parish, approximately 50 miles south of Lake Charles. Once fully commissioned, the facility is expected to produce 10 MTPA of clean liquefied natural gas that will be exported to global markets.
Press Release | 20. Feb 2020 | Gas and Power
Siemens to modernize full drilling-drives package and cooling system on jackup rig for Arabian Drilling Company

    First-of-its-kind drilling rig project will implement customized BlueDrive™ system to replace obsolete system
    New system will use existing footprint, cabling and communication points for greater safety and quick commissioning

Siemens was awarded a contract by Arabian Drilling Company to modernize a complete and integrated drilling-drives lineup, including auxiliaries and controls, that will be installed on an offshore jackup drilling rig for a customer in the Middle East. In addition to new features and benefits, the upgrade will also enable the customer to meet the latest safety standards. Delivery of the new system is planned for the early part of 2021.
Press Release | 19. Feb 2020 | Gas and Power
Mobile protection for level crossings
UPZ Sitech GmbH is part of the UPZ Group and is a specialist in rail safety technology and rail-related services. To ensure the reliable and smooth running of trains in the event of faults in the stationary safety technology for level crossings, UPZ has developed a mobile level crossing protection system. The solution is based on a Simatic S7-1500F fail-safe control in the robust Siplus extreme version from Siemens. This ensures that the system meets strict rail requirements, including its ability to operate in a temperature range from -25 to +55 degrees Celsius. In addition, the system is TÜV-certified, open, freely programmable and extremely flexible. The modular solution can be used to monitor up to twelve cabinet modules and offers an installation time of just two to three hours. 
News | 19. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens enables holistic energy data analysis in buildings

    For the first time, new electrical installation devices combine protection and measurement functions in a single unit
    The latest energy monitoring software can now be fully integrated into the Desigo CC building management system
    New Sentron “powermind” app allows cloud-based energy data analysis 

At this year’s Light+Building trade show, Siemens Smart Infrastructure will show the first energy management solution that holistically captures energy data in buildings. It collects data all the way to the final circuit without any additional wiring or space requirements. All electrical data – from the power feed-in to the socket outlet – can then be seamlessly integrated into building management systems and analyzed by cloud-based applications. This makes the electrical infrastructure an integral part of smart buildings that are connected via the Internet of Things (IoT). Operators and users gain maximum transparency over their energy flows and benefit from end-to-end digitalization.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens to supply further power plant equipment to Belarus

    Supply of six SGT-800 industrial gas turbines
    Increases grid reliability and flexibility
    Supports the transition to a new energy mix in Belarus

Siemens has received another order from Belarus to supply equipment for a peak load power plant. The order was placed by the state-run energy provider RUE Minskenergo. The six SGT-800 industrial gas turbines, like the five machines of the same type that Siemens is supplying for the Vitebsk region, will increase the grid’s reliability and flexibility and support the transition to a new energy mix in Belarus. Commissioning is scheduled for December 2021.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2020 | Gas and Power
Siemens and Hallé Orchestra select shortlist in international conductors competition

    Young conductors competition sponsored by Siemens Arts Program and Hallé Orchestra of Manchester (UK) to run until February 22
    Shortlist includes ten outstanding talents from nine countries 
    Winner to receive two-year engagement and cash prize of £15,000 
    Conducting per avatar as digital component used for first time

Ten outstanding young conductors have been selected for the shortlist in the Siemens Hallé International Conductors Competition. A total of 287 musicians from 55 countries entered the competition, which is a collaboration between the Siemens Arts Program and the Hallé Orchestra of Manchester (UK). The ten shortlisted conductors, comprising three women and seven men, come from nine different countries. An overview of the semifinalists is available at the end of this press release. 
Press Release | 17. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG
Compact with high range
Siemens is expanding its portfolio for ultra high frequency (UHF) identification systems to include two new SmartLabels. The passive and maintenance-free Simatic RF630L labels feature a reading range of up to five meters and are used primarily in warehouse and distribution logistics as well as for product identification. Thanks to the broadband design, the labels are suitable for worldwide use. 
News | 17. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility builds regional trains for the Lausitz

    DB Regio orders 18 three-part Mireo trainsets from Siemens Mobility 
    Service in the Lausitz regional network 
    Enhanced passenger comfort, barrier-free convenience and higher capacity

DB Regio has ordered 18 three-part Mireo trainsets from Siemens for service in the Lausitz regional network in the states of Brandenburg and Saxony. On December 17, 2019, DB Regio was awarded the contract for the Lausitz network by the Verkehrsverbund Berlin-Brandenburg (VBB) on behalf of the State of Brandenburg and the Zweckverband für den Nahverkehrsraum Leipzig (ZVNL). 
Press Release | 14. Feb 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Charter of Trust partners decide on further measures for more cybersecurity

    Cybersecurity by default: Next-generation products are to be equipped with preconfigured security 
    New partners: NTT, Infineon and Hasso Plattner Institute for Digital Engineering join Charter of Trust
    Cybersecurity extended along the supply chain: Numerous suppliers meet baseline requirements of the Charter of Trust companies 
    Education campaign for Small and Medium enterprises and schools: Charter of Trust partners provide cybersecurity materials 

The Charter-of-Trust (CoT) partners have agreed to deliver next-generation products with preset cybersecurity, following a clear “Security by Default” philosophy. At present, there are no uniform regulations governing this issue – many products leave the factory solely dependent on safety systems that do not provide comprehensive protection. Users often have to adjust security settings afterward. As a first step, the Charter partner companies have now defined which security features should be present and activated by default in next-generation products – ranging from strong authentication features to a unique product identity and the requirement that passwords must be changed upon first use. The CoT partners also believe that no undocumented functionalities or possibilities for remote connection should be part of initial device setup – another aspect that is not yet a general rule today. All these requirements are now being rolled out step by step within the relevant portfolios of the Charter of Trust member companies. 
Press Release | 14. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG
Siemens connecting households to offshore power
With the commissioning of BorWin3, Siemens has handed over the fifth North Sea grid connection to its customer TenneT. After completion of successful test runs, the German/Dutch grid operator accepted the project. Siemens was responsible for the grid connection system including an onshore converter station. The grid connections HelWin1 and HelWin2, BorWin2, SylWin1, and BorWin3 – for which Siemens supplied all the technology for direct current transmission – are thus now in commercial operation and are transmitting power. Siemens was awarded the contract for BorWin3 in the spring of 2014. Being the fifth North Sea grid connection, it provides power to over a million German households. In July 2017 Siemens won the order for the grid connection DolWin6, which is scheduled to go into operation in 2023. A total of almost six million households will be supplied with electricity generated from wind power via these six links. 
Feature | 13. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
The quietest vehicles on the road - Test track for vehicle noise levels equipped with Siemens technology
The National Automotive Test Tracks (Natrax), a test facility designed specifically for vehicles manufactured in India and Asia, lies on the outskirts of the Indian town of Indore. Automobiles and motorcycles are extensively tested here for, amongst other things, their noise levels in order to develop noise reduction solutions. The test facility is equipped with Siemens Digital Industries Software hardware and software solutions. They help engineers to complete tests to both national and international standards and to thoroughly analyze the captured data. The Siemens software solutions also allow the test procedures to be completed more quickly as several tests can run in parallel which significantly increases the efficiency of the test facility.
News | 12. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
New busbar trunking system enables higher energy efficiency for data centers of tomorrow

    Enhanced reliability and efficiency through easier energy monitoring without data cables
    Suitable for the transmission of more than double the electricity of comparable systems 
    Modular design for flexible planning and cost-effective expansion

At this year’s Light+Building, Siemens Smart Infrastructure is introducing LData, a busbar trunking system specially designed for data centers wanting to improve their efficiency, availability and adaptability. The more internet traffic, mobile users as well as Internet of Things connections increase, the more data has to be processed. That is why high-performance data centers are emerging as the backbone of a digital society. These data centers must offer the highest degree of availability to protect critical data as well as business-critical applications and industrial processes. At the same time, they must be energy efficient as well as easy to plan, install and expand. The energy distribution system plays a major role in this regard. 
Press Release | 11. Feb 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens builds Germany’s largest “power outlet” for ships for Port of Kiel

    Potential reduction of more than 8,000 tons of CO2 annually
    Emissions and noise while berthed can be significantly reduced
    Sustainable solution contributes to climate protection
    16-megavolt ampere shore power system to supply two ships simultaneously with certified eco-power 

The Port of Kiel commissioned Siemens to build Germany’s largest shore power system to date. With a power of 16 megavolt amperes (MVA), the Siharbor solution will supply two ships simultaneously with certified eco-power, for the first time. This will reduce annual CO2 emissions by more than 8,000 tons. The system is expected to go into test operation within the 2020 cruise ship season. Maritime shipping plays a special role in Kiel. The port is the point of departure for cruises and has ferry connections to the Baltic states and Scandinavia. 32 different cruise ships stopped in 174 times at the port facilities in 2018.
Press Release | 10. Feb 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Digital twin of materials – Siemens enables implementation of materials engineering in digital workflow
Siemens Digital Industries Software is expanding its Simcenter and Xcelerator portfolio through the acquisition of MultiMechanics, Inc., developer of finite element software. Users will benefit from a solution which can virtually predict failure in materials at an unprecedented level of speed and accuracy. To create the necessary digital twin of materials, material engineering, performance engineering, part design and manufacturing are closely integrated using True Multiscale technology. The implementation of materials engineering in the digital workflow and production, and the resulting cooperation between material developers, manufacturing process developers and part designers enables users to accelerate innovation and reduce costs and development time significantly. 
News | 10. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens transforms buildings from passive to adaptive
At this year’s Light+Building trade fair, Siemens will showcase its vision for transforming today’s passive buildings into learning and adaptive environments that intelligently interact with people. The company’s focus at this year’s show is “Building the future today”, outlining the innovations that will make this possible. These include cloud-based technologies, digital planning, occupant-centric building automation and services. New solutions for smart electrical infrastructure that seamlessly connects to the Internet of Things (IoT) are also at the core of this transformation. 
Press Release | 06. Feb 2020 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens’ MindSphere Continues Industrial IoT Momentum

    Siemens’ MindSphere Named an Industrial IoT Software Platforms Leader by Independent Research Firm 
    Partner ecosystem now includes SAS, AWS, Microsoft, Alibaba and Arrow Electronics
    MindSphere extends Xcelerator portfolio to enable tomorrow’s engineering, today

The Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) has the potential to significantly improve global productivity and growth, with Accenture estimating that this latest wave of digital innovation will accelerate the reinvention of sectors that account for almost two-thirds of world output and add US$14.2 trillion to the global economy by 2030.  As companies around the world continue to develop IIoT strategies and implement solutions, they are increasingly partnering with Siemens and choosing MindSphere®, the cloud-based, open Internet of Things (IoT) operating system, as the foundation of their IIoT programs. Recently, Siemens was among the select companies that Forrester invited to participate in The Forrester Wave™: Industrial IoT Software Platforms, Q4 2019 evaluation. In this evaluation, Siemens’ MindSphere was cited as a Leader in Industrial IoT Software Platforms. Over the past year, MindSphere significantly grew its partner program, and announced major new customer wins and Siemens’ expansion of the Mendix platform to include cloud and app services for digital engineering and IoT powered by MindSphere, which is at the heart of its powerful Xcelerator portfolio. 
Press Release | 06. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q1 FY 2020

    Orders at €24.8 billion, down 2% from the strong prior-year level as sharply lower volume from large orders in Mobility more than offset increases in the majority of industrial businesses, particularly in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE); revenue rose 1%, to €20.3 billion
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, orders declined 4% and revenue was down 1%; the book-to-bill ratio was a strong 1.22 and the order backlog reached a new high at €149 billion
    Adjusted EBITA Industrial Businesses declined to €1.4 billion, due mainly to a loss in SGRE and market weakness for short-cycle businesses; Adjusted EBITA margin Industrial Businesses was 7.3%, held back by €0.2 billion in severance charges, which reduced Adjusted EBITA margin Industrial Businesses by 1.0 percentage points
    Net income declined 3% to €1.1 billion and included substantially better results outside Industrial Businesses compared to Q1 FY 2019; basic earnings per share (EPS) rose 6% to €1.33

Press Release | 05. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG
Siemens to pay dividend of 3 Euro and 90 Cent per share

    Annual Shareholders’ Meeting ratifies acts of Managing and Supervisory Boards by large majorities

At today’s 54th ordinary Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens AG, shareholders approved the distribution of a dividend of €3.90 per share for fiscal 2019, as proposed by the Managing and Supervisory Boards. The dividend for fiscal 2019 was thus €0.10 higher than the dividend for fiscal 2018. The company has now increased its dividend six years in a row.
Press Release | 05. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG
Siemens Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2020
Siemens held its Annual Shareholders' Meeting at the Olympiahalle in Munich on February 5, 2020. 
Munich | 05. Feb 2020 - 05. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG Save the date
Ideal instrumentation for the process industry
The CGK Group (CGK) manufactures customized tank systems for the food & beverage industry as well as the water/wastewater  and chemical industry. When equipping the tanks for paint manufacturer Boss Paints (Boss), CGK uses reliable and field-proven Siemens Sitrans P DSIII and Sitrans F M MAG components for pressure, flow and level measurement. The devices with integrated diagnostic function provide precise measurements even in harsh ambient conditions, which helps Boss to ensure a consistent and high level of quality for its end products. In addition, the Siemens solutions support easy integration into the Simatic control system used by the end customer, as well as reliable and quick production automation. This saves time and money in planning, construction and commissioning. 
News | 05. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
First Quarter Results FY 2020
We released our first quarter results for fiscal year 2020 on February 5, 2020. The Press Conference and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
Munich | 05. Feb 2020 - 05. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens to acquire Iberdrola’s stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy

    Purchase price of €20.00 per SGRE share
    All shares held by Siemens to be transferred to future Siemens Energy
    Cooperation agreement signed for future joint projects
    Intensified cooperation between Siemens and SGRE will create savings of up to €900 million (NPV) for SGRE 

Siemens AG will acquire all the shares of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) held by Iberdrola S.A. At its regular meeting today, the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG approved the purchase of Iberdrola’s 8.1% stake in SGRE. The purchase price is €20.00 per share, which corresponds to a 32% premium on top of the average SGRE share price for the last 30 trading days. Siemens will pay the total amount of €1.1 billion from its own resources. All legal disputes between Iberdrola and Siemens will be settled.
Press Release | 03. Feb 2020 | Siemens AG
Automation from a single source
Tipper Tie Technopack GmbH (Tipper), based in Glinde, Germany and Apex, North Carolina, USA, is part of the JBT Group and manufactures clip and packaging solutions for the food industry. In order to further increase their competitiveness in the global market, Tipper works with Siemens as a reliable partner in the fields of visualization, automation and drive technology. Tipper is particularly focused on standardization. Thanks to a seamless automation solution based on standard components from Siemens, the company has been able to drastically reduce the cost of engineering, training and maintenance. In addition, with Siemens modular software and hardware solutions, engineering time can be cut by an estimated up to 66 percent.  
News | 02. Feb 2020 | Digital Industries
Eleven new Desiro ML trains for ÖBB: Austria's mass transit more economical and comfortable than ever

    ÖBB orders 11 new Desiro ML trains from Siemens Mobility
    By the end of 2021, a total of 200 ML ÖBB Cityjets will be in service
    Further trains will be retrofitted with ETCS to ensure highest safety standards

ÖBB (Austrian Federal Railways) is calling up eleven trains from the existing framework contract for 200 Desiro ML trains from Siemens Mobility, thereby completing the contract. When the new trains are delivered by the end of 2021, a total of 200 Desiro ML ÖBB Cityjets will be in service and substantially enhance the quality of travel for passengers. Equipped with WLAN, air conditioning, power outlets, tables for opposite seats and many other amenities, the trains offer local commuters all the comforts and conveniences that previously were only available on long-distance trains.
Press Release | 31. Jan 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Michael Hagmann to head Investor Relations at Siemens Energy
Effective February 1, 2020, Michael Hagmann (53) will be responsible for setting up Siemens Energy’s Investor Relations Department. He will report directly to Michael Sen, designated CEO of Siemens Energy.
Press Release | 30. Jan 2020 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Peter Körte to head Siemens Strategy

    Focus on Industrial Internet of Things
    Former head of Strategy Department, Horst J. Kayser, responsible for Siemens’ Portfolio Companies 

Peter Körte (44) has been appointed the new head of Siemens’ Strategy Department, effective February 1, 2020. In this role, he will succeed Horst J. Kayser, who has been responsible for Siemens’ Portfolio Companies since the beginning of January and has headed the Strategy Department on an acting basis since that time. As head of Strategy, Körte will report directly to Deputy CEO Roland Busch. Körte currently heads the Digital Health unit at Siemens Healthineers’ Diagnostic Imaging business.
Press Release | 30. Jan 2020 | Siemens AG
Clever energy management reduces consumption and costs
Pikolin S.L. is a leading mattress manufacturer in France and Spain when it comes to sleeping comfort. To achieve transparent energy consumption, Pikolin relies on a flexible and future-proof energy management solution from Siemens. Consumers and meters are integrated into a higher-level system and standardized energy reports are created. With Siemens technology in the form of Simatic Energy Manager Pro, Simatic ET 200SP AI Energy Meter, Simatic WinCC and the Simatic Energy Suite, Pikolin is saving 14 percent on electricity per square meter in the company and around 40 percent on natural gas per cubic meter in the production area. 
News | 29. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Groupe PSA digitalizes aftersales documentation with Siemens’ Capital software

    Siemens' Capital is selected by Europe's second largest car manufacturer to automatically render electrical system diagrams, replacing manual processes 
    Accurate documentation helps ensure rapid and effective vehicle maintenance, helping Groupe PSA realize a 30% schedule reduction
    Capital is part of the Xcelerator portfolio of software, which is enabling tomorrow's electronic design today

Siemens today announced that Siemens' Capital™ software electrical design product for its automotive aftersales documentation has been selected by Groupe PSA , the second largest car manufacturer in Europe. Groupe PSA is an early innovator of autonomous and connected cars, manufacturing five car brands: Peugeot, Citroën, DS, Opel and Vauxhall. The company has an established process of supplying its facilities with after-sales service documentation with several types of design deliverables aiding rapid diagnosis. Using Capital's advanced technology, Groupe PSA has replaced a largely manual process and can now automatically render their electrical system diagrams using data that comes directly from the PSA electrical/electronic (E/E) engineering department and their harness suppliers to help provide "correct-by-construction" assurance. The result is accurate documentation created using "as-manufactured" data provided by Groupe PSA's suppliers which helps ensure rapid and effective vehicle maintenance when required. Groupe PSA can now better enable their digital enterprise and continue to innovate the mobile solutions of the future. 
Press Release | 28. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Control technology in a magnetic field
The Velan Group is a world leader in the design and production of cast and forged steel valves for the chemical and pharmaceutical industry. One product manufactured by the company is cryogenic control valves, i.e. valves for use at extremely low temperatures, for systems that are researching superconductivity, particle accelerators, nuclear fusion equipment, rocket launch pads and liquefaction plants for helium and hydrogen. A project in a relating plant required control valves that could be used in a strong magnetic field. To meet this specific challenge, Velan relied on long-term partner Siemens. With a Siemens positioner with external electronics, the technical solution passes the qualification and function test in the magnetic field of 100 milliTesla (mT =unit of measurement for magnetic flux density) and meets the end customer’s strict requirements. 
News | 27. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Guided safety acceptance test for Sinamics frequency converters for easy machine validation

    Guided acceptance test for safety functions in the Sinamics Startdrive engineering tool
    Extremely user-friendly thanks to acceptance wizard
    Automatically generated and standard-compliant acceptance report supports documentation

With Sinamics Startdrive commissioning software, Siemens supports machine builders in the validation of safety functions for Sinamics frequency converters with a guided acceptance test. With Sinamics Startdrive, Siemens offers a tool for the integration of drive hardware into the TIA Portal engineering framework. The integrated guided acceptance test for safety functions is available for Sinamics G and S series frequency converters and complies with EN ISO 13849-2 and IEC 62061.
Press Release | 26. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
New ultra-compact weighing electronics for maximum precision

    Fast 1,000 Hz sampling rate and processing time deliver high accuracy and repeatability
    Seamless, user-friendly integration into Simatic automation systems
    Wide range of applications in pharmaceutical, food and beverage, chemical, and steel industries 

Siwarex WP351 is Siemens’ newest solution for intelligent weighing automation. Measuring 20 millimeters width by 65 millimeters height, the module is one of the smallest weighing electronics units available. The device’s 1,000 Hz sampling rate and processing time combined with a digital output response time of less than one millisecond guarantee highest accuracy and repeatability. This capability represents especially in case of checking scales and high performance filling machines a big advantage, as even within very short weighing times the dosing devices are controlled in an optimal way.
Press Release | 26. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens to acquire C&S Electric in India to meet growing electrification needs

    Acquisition to address rising demand for low-voltage power distribution in India 
    Siemens to acquire 99% of C&S Electric Limited
    Transaction strengthens local market presence, enables creation of export hub
    Closing subject to regulatory approvals

In a step to meet the increasing demand for electrification across industry, infrastructure and buildings in India, Siemens Ltd. (India) today signed an agreement to acquire New Delhi-based C&S Electric Limited. The acquisition of one of the leading providers of electrical and electronic equipment for infrastructure, power generation, transmission and distribution, will strengthen Siemens’ position as a key supplier of low-voltage power distribution and electrical installation technology in one of the world’s fastest-growing economies. Under the agreement, Siemens Ltd. will acquire approximately 99 percent of the equity share capital of C&S Electric Limited for around EUR 267 million (INR 21 billion). Closing of the acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals. In the future, Siemens envisions this partnership to pave the way for the establishment of a design and manufacturing hub in India, supporting the export of electrification solutions to fast-developing markets around the world. Siemens Ltd. is the local, publicly-listed entity of Siemens AG.
Press Release | 24. Jan 2020 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure
Lest we forget – Siemens to honor work of “ostracized” musicians with 3D recording

    Siemens Arts Program to showcase work of persecuted and “ostracized” Jewish musicians in order to mark 75th anniversary of liberation of Auschwitz concentration camp
    Composer Viktor Ullmann (1898-1944), murdered in Auschwitz, to be honored with new 3D recording to be released on January 31
    Ullmann’s Piano Concerto Opus 25 recorded for first time in 3D audio format by Rundfunk-Sinfonieorchester Berlin and Annika Treutler (piano) under the direction of Stephan Frucht

The Siemens Arts Program has teamed up with pianist Annika Treutler to produce a new recording of Viktor Ullmann’s Piano Concerto Opus 25, composed in 1939. This is the first time the work has been recorded using 3D audio processing. The recording was produced in cooperation with the German broadcaster Deutschlandfunk Kultur and the Rundfunk-Sinfonieorchester Berlin at Berlin-Brandenburg Broadcasting’s large studio in Berlin under the direction of Stephan Frucht (Artistic Director of the Siemens Arts Program). The recording process was directed by Professor Thorsten Weigelt (Berlin University of Fine Arts) and the 3D immersive audio specialist Stefan Bock (IAN Munich). 
Press Release | 24. Jan 2020 | Siemens AG
Seamless software chain
Autefa Solutions Germany GmbH (Autefa) is a well-known manufacturer of textile fiber baling presses and automation technology for the beverage industry. In order to reduce product and process development times, the company uses end-to-end technology from Siemens – including the digital twin, which will in future be used to develop and test baling presses in the virtual world before they are commissioned in the real world. This can ideally lead to time savings of up to 50 percent. As a result of this close cooperation, Autefa was able to launch the world’s fastest baling press with automatic packaging.
News | 22. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility and Tisséo double capacity of Toulouse’s metro line A

    Capacity of Toulouse metro Line A doubled by increasing train lengths from 26 to 52 meters
    Siemens and Tisséo worked through 1,000 nights to complete project on time without interrupting service
    World premiere for a fully automated VAL metro

Tisséo Collectivités, the transport network of Toulouse, inaugurated the new “XXL” Line A in its metro system. Awarded in November 2015, the “My Line A in XXL” project aimed to double metro capacity by increasing train lengths from 26 to 52 meters with 4-car rather than 2-car trains. The new trains can now carry up to 320 passengers, increasing the daily capacity of Line A from 220,000 to 400,000 passengers. The goal is to eventually reach an operating interval of 75 seconds between each train during peak hours to reduce waiting times and improve passenger experience in France’s fourth largest city. 
Press Release | 21. Jan 2020 | Siemens Mobility
Information bundled centrally
Vald-Birn is an iron and metal processing company that employs around 600 people at its site in Denmark. To improve production efficiency, Vald-Birn wanted to standardize the monitoring and processing of paint jobs in a uniform solution. The company decided to use engineering and automation technology from Siemens. This has enabled them to drastically reduce response times in the event of faults and time spent on troubleshooting, to simplify engineering and to increase servicing efficiency. 
News | 20. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Professional crane operation
Over 70 percent of all break-bulk cargo (piece goods) in the world is transported by ship, train, or truck in ISO containers (standardized large-volume containers). Cutting-edge container terminals are therefore essential to ensure goods are handled efficiently. A well-known provider of these solutions is relying on a high degree of automation and Siemens communication and network technology when building a new container port terminal. A total of 42 cranes are controlled and automated using the largely redundant, reliable network. The pre-configured and tested devices were commissioned in successive stages. By ensuring the automation and PC systems were completely separated, the network retains a high level of availability, thus making a significant contribution to the efficiency of the container terminal.
News | 16. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Keeping it clean
Packo Inox NV (Packo) manufactures high-quality stainless steel systems for hygiene-sensitive production processes in the food and pharmaceutical industries. In addition to individual system components, the company also supplies complete process lines. On the one hand, a high degree of standardization is important to ensure easy integration into existing systems. On the other, the system modules have to be optimized to meet specific customer requirements. To this end, Packo has relied for years on a close collaboration with Siemens to ensure reliable development of its systems. In addition to QR coding with Siemens solutions for easy documentation and integration of system modules, Packo also benefits from robust components with high reliability, and highly accurate process instrumentation.
News | 15. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Joe Kaeser on Adani Carmichael project
To whom it may concern, First of all, I do want to thank you for the countless mails, social media engagements and personal meetings over this important matter. The vast majority has been addressing their concerns clearly and with respect. For me, this only underscored the importance and the need to diligently look into the issue at hand. Especially, the messages I’ve received from Australian people have moved me personally, when they described that their homes and their country is burning and suffering from these terrible fires. Even though we do not have clear evidence that the wildfires and this project are directly connected, I feel empathy for all those, who spoke up and warned about worsening conditions. Siemens, as one of the first companies to have pledged carbon neutrality by 2030, fundamentally shares the goal of making fossil fuels redundant to our economies over time. 
News | 12. Jan 2020 | Siemens AG, Siemens Mobility
Siemensstadt 2.0
The historical Siemensstadt will be transformed into a new working and living environment. With Siemensstadt 2.0, Siemens is planning to implement the largest development project in its history.
Feature | 08. Jan 2020 | Siemens AG, Real Estate
Optimal model design
Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning provider of design software for architects, landscape architects and the entertainment industry with a global presence. An important customer requirement of software solutions is easy and robust 3D modeling functionality. Vectorworks uses components from the Siemens PLM Software portfolio. With Siemens solutions, customers can achieve precise modeling, for example protrusions or similar. More importantly, designers can spend more time on the actual design process without having to worry about detailed questions of error accuracy. 
News | 08. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Winning Design Urban Planning new Siemensstadt

    Jury’s decision for design by Berlin firm unanimous
    Clear urban development concept and new high-rise structure in center of Siemensstadt
    Historic location to be successfully transformed for the future

Siemens and the State of Berlin invited 18 architecture firms and urban planning teams to participate in the competition to redesign Siemensstadt (“Siemens City”), the company’s historic location in Berlin. After two days evaluating their proposals, the high-caliber jury has now reached a decision: “Siemensstadt 2.0 will be implemented on the basis of a design submitted by the Berlin firm Ortner & Ortner Baukunst,” said Stefan Behnisch, the distinguished architect who chaired the jury’s deliberations. “In the jury’s view, this design will provide a solid basis for the structure of the future Siemensstadt. It’s not the complete picture. It leaves room for necessary developments. It’s a design that treats the historical buildings with respect while enabling their up-to-date utilization. The design fulfills virtually all today’s requirements, but also leaves room for the future development of a new, modern city where people can both work and live,” he added. 
Press Release | 08. Jan 2020 | Siemens AG, Real Estate
Siemens extends Ruggedcom portfolio with a PRP/HSR module for enhanced reliability of industrial networks

    Seamless redundancy and high precision time synchronization from a single device
    Easy migration to highly reliable networks with zero packet loss
    Minimal downtime and reduced risk of communication disruptions
    Specifically designed for modern digital substation applications

Siemens has introduced a new line module for the Ruggedcom RST2228 and RST2228P Layer 2 19” rack switches, the Ruggedcom RMM2972-2RNA. This module strengthens the Ruggedcom RST2228 19” rack switch offering to the electric power utilities by providing seamless redundancy with PRP/HSR (Parallel Redundancy Protocol/High-availability Seamless Redundancy), enhanced IEEE1588 implementation, high bandwidth uplinks, and traffic filtering and segmentation from a single device. This module eliminates network downtime due to single points of fault, resulting in high reliability and availability for modern digital substation applications as mandated by the IEC 61850 standard. 
Press Release | 07. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens partners with Arm to accelerate the future of mobility by redefining design capabilities for complex electronic systems

    Partnership brings together leading-edge integrated circuit (IC) methodologies, processes and tools to help the automotive supply chain solve design and verification challenges 
    Leveraging Arm automotive IP and software within Siemens’ PAVE360 digital twin environment enables collaboration and empowers automakers and suppliers to develop and validate differentiated safety enabled systems, ICs and software solutions in the context of the entire vehicle 
    Siemens’ PAVE360, part of Siemens Digital Industries Software’s Xcelerator portfolio, helps automotive companies innovate and develop the complex electronic systems needed for today and tomorrow’s vehicles

Siemens Digital Industries Software today announced a partnership with global semiconductor IP leader Arm, that will bring leading edge IP, methodologies, processes and tools together to help automakers, integrators and suppliers collaborate, design and bring to market their next-generation platforms much faster. This partnership was formed to address the increasingly complex challenges facing the industry in developing platforms to realize active-safety, advanced driver assistance, in-vehicle infotainment, digital cockpits, vehicle-to-vehicle/vehicle-to-infrastructure and self-driving vehicles. Key advances in computing and sensor technology are enabling companies to redefine mobility beginning with the integrated circuits and software within automotive electronics systems. The combination of Siemens’ and Arm’s innovative technologies can help automakers and suppliers deliver tomorrow’s electronic design and automotive solutions, today. 
Press Release | 06. Jan 2020 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility Exhibits Innovative Mobility Solutions at CES 2020
Kicking off 2020, Siemens Mobility will participate in the Consumer Electronics Show (CES), a preeminent gathering place for the most innovative minds and organizations, taking place in Las Vegas, January 6-10, 2020. Under the motto of “Connecting people through seamless mobility”, Siemens Mobility will be showcasing a variety of digital innovations from its intelligent traffic systems and intermodal solutions. Siemens Mobility delivers innovative solution-driven technology that enhances quality of life: making communities more sustainable and better places to live, work and play. Contributing to the next mobility revolution, comprehensive traffic management systems are shaping an autonomous, connected, electric and shared mobility ecosystem.
Las Vegas | 06. Jan 2020 - 10. Jan 2020 | Siemens Mobility Save the date
Digital twin in Hagerbach Test Gallery
A unique test laboratory has been opened at the Hagerbach Test Gallery in Flums. The Tunnel Digitalization Center (TDC) enables the simulation of tunnel applications in a realistic environment. In the past, solutions for tunneling had to be installed and tested on site at great expense. The TDC is equipped with numerous Siemens solutions. For example, engineers have implemented the TIA Portal (Totally Integrated Automation Portal). This engineering framework is suitable for all project phases – from planning through engineering to commissioning.
News | 18. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility launches first-ever mobile bus lane enforcement solution in New York

    Intelligent infrastructure used on three bus routes in Manhattan and Brooklyn
    Helps ease congestion and improve efficiency
    Sophisticated solution identifies violations and length of stay

Siemens Mobility has successfully launched an Automatic Bus Lane Enforcement (ABLE) solution in New York City, representing the first-ever application of this technology to be mounted on buses. The ABLE systems are installed on M15 Select Bus Service buses that operate on bus lanes benefitting more than 44,000 daily customers. The technology is playing a key part in New York City’s drive to improve bus speed and efficiency and to keep traffic moving on the city’s congested streets.
Press Release | 17. Dec 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Updates for Siemens frequency converter portfolio

    Voltage variant of Sinamics G120X for USA and Latin America
    Save space with new size for the Sinamics V20
    Adapter kit to physically and thermally separate power module and control unit for Sinamics G120  

With numerous innovations, Siemens is extending its drive portfolio, improving user-friendliness and offering space-saving installation options. The Sinamics G120X converter, designed specifically for use in water/wastewater applications and in HVAC systems, is now also available in a three-phase 3AC 200V voltage variant in the power range up to 55 kW. This means that the converters can now be integrated seamlessly into applications in the USA and in Latin America. Due to its robust construction and the coating of the PCBs according to 3C3 standard the converter is suitable for harsh environments. The new module for extending the digital and analog inputs and outputs increases the flexibility and the optimal control of converter-guided applications. The Sinamics G120X now also supports the communication protocols Profibus, Modbus RTU, USS and BACnet MS/TP. It is equipped with extensive interfaces and can be easily integrated into existing or new systems. 
Press Release | 17. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Quick product changeover
Paro AG develops and builds individual, medium to large volume production and assembly systems. In order to guarantee high clock-pulse rates and process flexibility, the business uses linear technology in its machines and systems. Integral to this is the Siemens Multi-Carrier System (MCS) which, typically, keeps setup times to a minimum when changing products. The mechatronic system concept was initially tested using a digital twin which had been created using Siemens technology. This meant that only two days were required for the actual system to be installed and successfully commissioned.
News | 17. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens again provides funds to support fight against corruption

    Siemens announces projects to be supported in the Third Funding Round
    Up to US$ 30 million in funding to be awarded
    Siemens Integrity Initiative's funding volume exceeds US$ 100 million

As part of the Siemens Integrity Initiative, which has a funding volume of more than US$ 100 million, Siemens AG has named new projects to receive funding in order to promote corruption-free markets. 
Press Release | 16. Dec 2019 | Siemens AG
Alpha Trains orders regional trains for Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

    Seven four-car Desiro Mainline trainsets ordered 
    To serve in the Verkehrsgesellschaft Mecklenburg-Vorpommern rail network
    Subsequent capacity expansion to four-car trainsets ensures sustainable value creation over the entire lifecycle

Alpha Trains, the European continent’s largest leasing company for rail rolling stock, has ordered seven Desiro Mainline (ML) regional trains from Siemens Mobility. Ostdeutsche Eisenbahn GmbH (ODEG) will lease the trains for service in the rail network Baltic coast east operated from December 2019 onwards by the ODEG on behalf of Verkehrsgesellschaft Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (VMV). The production has already started at the Siemens Mobility train manufacturing facility in Krefeld. “Alpha Trains ordered the Desiro ML as its first customer many years ago and we are pleased that this proven and reliable platform is also used for this project” said Thomas Schmidt, Managing Director of Alpha Trains Europa GmbH. 
Press Release | 16. Dec 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siplus HCS4300 and HCS4200: space-saving, high-performance heating solution

    New power output module boosts HCS4300 heating control system performance
    HCS4200: space-saving solution for use in flat control cabinets with new CIM4210C central interface module
    Simple, convenient engineering and commissioning of industrial heating processes with TIA Portal

Siemens has equipped the modular Siplus HCS heating control systems for switching and controlling heater fields and elements with a new power output module (POM) and a central interface module (CIM). With more power per output and a space-saving solution for mounting in flat control cabinets, the flexible heating control system is now even more versatile, and can be used for example in applications with heat registers.
Press Release | 16. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Sinumerik One in the TIA Portal

    Shorter development and commissioning times 
    Software libraries enable standardization
    Commissioning tests on virtual test rack

The new Sinumerik One CNC generation is at the heart of digital transformation for machine tools. As a digital native, the controller features not only a new hardware platform, but also versatile software for the creation of a digital twin. It closes the gap between the virtual and the real world and helps to reduce development and commissioning times considerably.
Press Release | 16. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Engineering degree 4.0
Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) is a public university which offers its students approximately 250 different courses in the fields of engineering and technology, as well as medicine and dentistry. For the field of engineering, IUPUI has developed a unique curriculum so that students can study the digitalization of the system engineering process. To achieve this, the university uses solutions from the Siemens Digital Industries software portfolio which has increased student uptake in this area. This modern solution benefits students by providing technology which allows them to learn how to develop real products.
News | 16. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Digitalization out of the bottle
What do brands like Persil, Perwoll or Somat have in common? They’re all manufactured by Henkel. The products are all quite different, as are their requirements for production. Backed by digitalization solutions from Siemens, Henkel is completely committed to maintaining its high-quality standards and increasing efficiency at its Spanish production site in Montornés del Vallés near Barcelona, Spain. 
News | 13. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Vectron receives ETCS Baseline 3.4 approval

    ETCS approval for Baseline 3 in Germany and Sweden 
    Improved availability thanks to intelligent infrastructure
    Approval for other countries to follow

Germany’s Federal Railway Authority (EBA) has approved the Vectron locomotive for operating in Germany with the European Train Control System (ETCS) Baseline 3. Approval for Sweden has already been received. Additional countries will follow.
Press Release | 13. Dec 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Horst J. Kayser to head Portfolio Companies

    Kayser to take on new role at beginning of 2020
    Current head, Jochen Eickholt, is moving to Siemens Energy 

Horst J. Kayser (58) will be the new Chairman of the Siemens Portfolio Companies (POC), effective January 1, 2020. In this capacity, he is succeeding Jochen Eickholt, who is becoming a member of the future Executive Board of Siemens Energy, where he will be responsible for the Power Generation and Oil & Gas units. Kayser is currently still Head of Strategy at Siemens AG. Until further notice, he will continue to lead this department on an acting basis in addition to his new role. As POC Chairman, Kayser will report directly to Deputy CEO Roland Busch.
Press Release | 11. Dec 2019 | Siemens AG
When the mountain calls
Tscharner Technik (Tscharner) equips cable cars and ski lifts with control systems, combining their own software developed in-house with failsafe controllers from Siemens. As part of the software advancement, the visualization has been updated. The first project that uses the new solution includes two single ski lifts and one double ski lift in the Rosswald near Brig ski resort. The new control system impresses with its intuitive handling and clear display. The controller also calculates all the data relevant to the cable car such as speed and acceleration and communicates it to the drive. In the event of an error, remote maintenance via a VPN (Virtual Private Network) connection is possible at all times.
News | 11. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
New generation of machine-level block I/O devices with IP65/67 protection

    Next generation of Simatic ET 200eco PN: New functions for modern machine concepts and requirements
    For use in redundant, high-availability systems thanks to S2 redundancy
    High current-carrying capacity with power supply via L-coded plug
    High-quality industrial enclosure with IP65/67 protection for outdoor use

Siemens has launched a new generation of machine-level block I/O devices in the form of the Simatic ET 200eco PN. The new I/O family with IP65/67 degree of protection includes five digital I/O devices as well as an IO-Link master device and offers users a whole range of new functions for modern machine concepts and requirements. In their new industrial metal enclosure, the devices are reliably protected from UV radiation and harmful substances even under adverse environmental conditions, making it possible to use the devices outside of factory buildings. The devices are supplied with power via an L-coded plug, resulting in a considerably higher current-carrying capacity. In turn, this enables longer cable routes in the field, and the supply and connection of more energy-intensive components (such as valve terminals) without the need for more supply cables.
Press Release | 11. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Engagement in Australia
Siemens has recently been contacted by groups and individuals expressing their opinion on the Adani Carmichael coal mine project in Queensland, Australia. 
News | 11. Dec 2019 | Siemens AG, Siemens Mobility
Siemens introduces updated Desigo CC platform to manage all building sizes

    Desigo CC Compact for small and medium-sized buildings
    Improved connectivity to support KNX and M-Bus protocols
    Powermanager module for efficient energy systems and demand optimization
    New cloud application

Desigo CC, the integrated building management platform from Siemens Smart Infrastructure, has been updated to version V4, making it suitable for use across a wider range of buildings. The technology enables building operators to boost energy efficiency while ensuring the comfort and safety of tenants. Every construction, from commercial and residential buildings to educational and medical facilities is compatible with Desigo CC. Equipped with multidiscipline support, including fire safety, power management, lighting, HVAC and physical security, Desigo CC turns buildings into living environments that can interact with their occupants and adapt to their changing needs by collecting and analyzing building-generated data. Now, with the product portfolio extension, Desigo CC Compact, provides precise scalability and flexibility in usage also for small and medium-sized buildings.
Press Release | 10. Dec 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens supplies gas turbines for peaking power plants in Belarus

    Siemens industrial gas turbines will provide peaking power to help improve the reliability and flexibility of the Belarusian power grid

Siemens will deliver the power generation equipment for two new peaking power plants in the Republic of Belarus. The customer is the state-owned utility company RUE Vitebskenergo. The new plants will be operated in conjunction with the existing Lukomlskaya and Novopolotskaya power plants in the Vitebsk region in northern Belarus and will help ensure the reliability and flexibility of the country’s power grid. The plants are expected to go into operation in the end of 2021. 
Press Release | 10. Dec 2019 | Gas and Power
New firmware for Simatic S7-1500 and Simatic S7-1200 controllers

    Simatic S7-1500 firmware V2.8: Secure data integration, versatile diagnostics function for OPC UA server
    Simatic S7-1200 firmware V4.4: Improved cross-platform data transfer, OPC UA Data Access as server, OPC UA Modelling Editor

Siemens announces the release of two firmware updates for Simatic controllers that provide new functions. The Simatic S7-1500 firmware V2.8 from Siemens improves cross-device capabilities for data integration and diagnostics functions. The new Simatic S7-1200 firmware V4.4 extends the communication functions of the Simatic S7-1200, enhancing cross-platform data transfer with other controllers and higher-level or cloud-based systems such as ERP, SCADA and Mindsphere. The applications are numerous, ranging from industrial use to agriculture and infrastructure projects.
Press Release | 10. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Biopharmaceuticals: Faster to full scale with simulation
Medicine production starts in a lab, where cells are cultured and bacteria fermented in small batches. When it’s time to move to industrial-scale production, Abec – a supplier of bioreactors and fermenters – employs advanced simulation software from Siemens.
News | 09. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens ranks as a leading IoT platform provider for smart buildings
Independent industry research company Verdantix has recently ranked Siemens Smart Infrastructure as a leading provider of the Internet of Things (IoT) platforms for smart buildings. The “Green Quadrant IoT platforms for Smart Buildings 2019” report assesses 13 companies that Verdantix considers as shaping the market, which is still at its infancy but seeing strong competition.
Press Release | 09. Dec 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Clear cost structure
Valeo Kapec (Valeo) is a South Korean automotive parts manufacturer, which supplies ten million torque converters for automatic transmissions globally every year. Due to a joint venture the company had a heterogenous structure, which made it difficult for Valeo to gain an overview of total development and manufacturing costs. In order to standardize and therefore better monitor cost estimates in future, the company is implementing solutions from Siemens Digital Industries Software. Valeo has been able to reduce calculation time, while also establishing a company-wide process for product costs and a uniform calculation standard.  
News | 06. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens acquires Atlas 3D - Expansion of Siemens Xcelerator software portfolio for additive manufacturing
Siemens Digital Industries software is expanding its additive manufacturing capabilities by acquiring Atlas 3D. The software specialist offers designers solutions for ‘right first time’ 3D printing, i.e. for optimal print orientation. The cloud-based GPU (graphics processing unit)-accelerated Sunata software reduces downstream 3D printing errors caused for example by thermal distortion up to 100 times faster than comparable systems.
News | 05. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens signs cooperation agreement in Sweden to test renewable fuels

    Cooperation aims to test renewable fuels at the Rya CHP plant located in the energy port of Gothenburg
    First phase with Göteborg Energi is to validate 3D-printed burners at the Rya plant

By 2030, the ambition is that all district heating in Gothenburg, Sweden, will be produced by renewable or recovered energy sources. With this in mind Göteborg Energi and Siemens have come together in a cooperation agreement with the aim of testing state-of-the-art gas turbine technology that enables the operation of renewable fuels in the Rya combined heat and power (CHP) plant, which is today powered by natural gas.
Press Release | 05. Dec 2019 | Gas and Power
Cloud-capable pumps and motors - Digitalization pilot project in the food industry
Danish Crown is a globally active food processing company. To fully leverage the benefits of digitalization and in particular prevent costly production downtimes, the company relies on close cooperation with Siemens and Grundfos, a specialist in pump and water technology. The project has involved the use of condition monitoring with subsequent data analysis, marking a first for the food & beverage industry. Key components of the solution include cloud-capable low-voltage motors and the open cloud platform MindSphere from Siemens, alongside pumps and sensors from Grundfos. Linking the systems in operation at Danish Crown to the cloud has enabled simpler maintenance and lower servicing costs, ultimately resulting in improved productivity.
News | 04. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to strengthen responsibility and sustainability with new Managing Board compensation system

    Managing Board members’ individual responsibility to have greater weight
    In addition to capital market performance, sustainability targets included for first time 
    Contractual maximum compensation agreed
    New compensation system makes Siemens a pioneer among DAX companies

Siemens intends to adjust the compensation system for its Managing Board members in order to align the system more closely with the company’s sustainable development and thus with the Vision 2020+ company strategy. By implementing the new system, Siemens is taking on a pioneering role because the new approach already reflects the draft version of the German Corporate Governance Code of May 9, 2019, and the draft version of the act transposing the European Union’s Second Shareholder Rights Directive into German law. In addition, the new concept not only considers performance on the capital market, but also places emphasis on targets for environmental protection, professional development of employees and customer satisfaction. In the future, the broad-based MSCI World Industrials Index – instead of a comparison with five main competitors – will be the yardstick for the comparisons that determine the value of the stock awards. The new Managing Board compensation system, which already applies as of fiscal 2020, will be submitted to shareholders for endorsement at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on February 5, 2020.
Press Release | 04. Dec 2019 | Siemens AG
New metro trains now running on Bangkok’s BTS Skytrain System

    22 trains from Siemens Mobility and Bozankaya in passenger service
    Enhanced passenger experience and more capacity

In Bangkok, Thailand, all 22 metro trains delivered by the consortium of Siemens Mobility and Turkish railway manufacturer Bozankaya are now in operation on the existing BTS (Skytrain System) Green Lines including its extensions. The last train entered service on the inaugurated Green Line extensions in October 2019. By the 4th of December 2019, Bangkok Mass Transit System Public Company (BTSC) will commence passenger service on the newly completed section of the Green Line from Kheha Station to Kasetsart University Station. In total, 22 four-car trains have been delivered with the scope of Siemens Mobility delivering bogies, drive and brake systems, auxiliary services as well as the project management, engineering, design and commissioning of the trains. The trains were built at the Bozankaya plant in Ankara, Turkey. Siemens Mobility will maintain the trains over a period of 16 years.
Press Release | 04. Dec 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Robust cabling - New components for the 19” control cabinet
Siemens is extending its FastConnect range of cabling technology with new components surrounding the 19 inch control cabinet. The Siemens 19 inch Module Frame represents a robust patch system for installation of both copper and fiber-optic connectors in less time and without errors. Operation Technology (OT) and Information Technology (IT) do not use the same network components and this is reflected in the cabling technology selected. While office IT (Information Technology) has lower requirements in terms of robustness and environmental properties, production networks require components which are suitable for industrial application. However, it is not possible to say that the networks are separate as they are both connected to each other via high-performance firewall routers. The 19 inch Module Frame can be fitted into the 19 inch control cabinet using the integrated mounting brackets.
News | 03. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to equip Bajaj Energy plant in India with digitalization solutions

    Digital solutions provide for improved operational efficiency and reduced emissions 

Siemens will equip Lalitpur Power Generation Company Limited (LPGCL), a Bajaj Group company, with advanced digital solutions for its power plant located in Lalitpur, Uttar Pradesh, India.

Press Release | 03. Dec 2019 | Gas and Power
New Siemens presence detector boosts energy efficiency, climate control without add-ons

    Five sensors in a single device for optimal ambient conditions and maximum energy savings
    Control of lighting, ventilation and heating systems
    Precise readings, monitoring and control of energy consumption
    Fast installation thanks to a single KNX cable

The new presence detector WIDE UP 258Dx1 from Siemens Smart Infrastructure can now for the first time contribute to energy-efficient lighting and climate control without having to rely on additional accessories thanks to its built-in multi-sensor technology. It is part of the GAMMA instabus building system technology portfolio, a series of products based on the worldwide KNX standard and with five different sensors for HVAC and lighting control. Dedicated sensors record presence, brightness, temperature, humidity and CO2 levels, guaranteeing perfect room conditions in commercial buildings with substantial room depth and high occupancy fluctuations.
Press Release | 03. Dec 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Centrally editable transponder layout - New technology object makes symbolic data addressing easier
The new TIA (Totally Integrated Automation) Portal V16 from Siemens includes a new technology object for the Simatic Ident identification system. With the TO_TagLayout technology object, users can centrally edit a layout for the symbolic addressing of all data on Simatic RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) transponders. This means that the transponder layout for the whole production can be defined and edited at only one location and transferred from there to all other plants. This method saves time, while central data management also reduces the probability of errors in the event of changes to the layout.
News | 02. Dec 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens honors 23 researchers who account for 1,450 inventions

    Most of the inventors are from Germany, the others come from the U.S., Russia, China, the UK, Spain, Italy and Romania
    Thirty-one inventions per day in fiscal 2019

Siemens has honored 23 particularly resourceful researchers as Inventors of the Year 2019. Together, these scientists are responsible for some 1,450 inventions and 1,500 individual patents. Most of the inventors are from Germany, the U.S., Russia, China, the UK, Spain, Italy and Romania. Their inventions cover the whole spectrum of Siemens. They range from 3D animation for early detection of breast cancer to a new solution for electrifying old rail lines without the need for modifications to bridges and tunnels and continue all the way to a postcard-sized module for industrial controllers that uses artificial intelligence and is thus capable of revolutionizing automation in factories.
Press Release | 29. Nov 2019 | Siemens AG
Inventors of the Year 2019
Every day, our employees are making cities more livable and industries more efficient. Since 1995, Siemens has honored particularly outstanding researchers and developers whose inventions have significantly contributed to company’s success while also benefiting society. The theme for this year’s event is “Dreams: Making the impossible possible.” Siemens has honored 23 particularly successful researchers as the “2019 Inventors of the Year.” Collectively, these scientists are responsible for about 1,450 inventions and 1,500 issued patents. Most of the inventors come from Germany, in addition to the US, Russia, China, the UK, Spain, Italy, and Romania. Since 2016, eligibility to be Inventor of the Year has also been extended to include researchers from outside the company. For fiscal 2019, Siemens holds more than 68,000 issued patents. During this period, employees have registered about 3,750 patents, and submitted 6,850 invention disclosure reports worldwide. Based on 220 working days, that’s approximately 31 inventions per day. 
| 27. Nov 2019 - 27. Nov 2019 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens Mobility delivers Signaling System for Taiwan’s new Taoyuan Airport terminal and for Taipei Mass Rapid Transit system extension

    New signaling means seamless transition to automated train operation (ATO)
    Communications-Based Train Control (CBTC)
    Two stations and 20 trains will be equipped 

Siemens Mobility, along with consortium partners ST Engineering and BES Engineering Corporation, has been awarded a contract to deliver the signaling and communications for two new stations at Taoyuan Airport terminal three. The airport currently services more than 45 million passengers and with the opening of terminal three capacity is expected to grow to up to 86 million passengers per year. The mass transit system will provide access to the terminal for both current and future passengers. Siemens Mobility will provide the signaling system, which will include CBTC that will allow for automated train operations (ATO). Two stations, with an option for a third, and 20 trains will be equipped. The first station will be commissioned in September 2022, the second is planned for in June 2024. 
Press Release | 27. Nov 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Industrial Edge takes the benefits of the Cloud to field level

    Siemens Industrial Edge closes the gap between local and Cloud computing and enables high-frequency data exchange at field level
    Edge apps for intelligent data analysis and increased productivity
    Industrial Edge includes a backend, Edge devices and Edge apps in Edge Management

With Siemens Industrial Edge, Siemens offers a digitalization solution that adds machine-level data processing to automation devices, by taking the intelligence of Edge computing and thus, sophisticated analytics securely to manufacturing level. Siemens Industrial Edge offers users the opportunity to execute a wide range of descriptive, diagnostic, predictive and prescriptive analytics applications. Cloud connectivity is used in conjunction with Edge apps from Siemens, from third-party providers or from users themselves in an integrated hardware and software ecosystem for automation components.
Press Release | 26. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens integrates cutting-edge technologies for more environmentally efficient and flexible production

    Digital Enterprise portfolio aimed at meeting increasing requirements for greater productivity and flexibility as well as environmental efficiency
    New platform innovations ensure integration and flexibility across all stages of the value chain
    Growing ecosystem for Industrial Edge and Cloud enables scalability from the shop floor to the Cloud

Through innovations and the integration of cutting-edge technologies into the Digital Enterprise portfolio, Siemens helps companies from all sectors to achieve a more flexible and environmentally efficient production. “The Digital Enterprise portfolio is already well established globally in all industries for the implementation of Industrie 4.0. Many applications demonstrate the tangible benefits of these solutions for our customers,” explains Klaus Helmrich, Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and CEO of Digital Industries, at SPS. “Now we are taking the next step: with numerous innovations und cutting-edge technologies, we are taking the Digital Enterprise portfolio and therefore Industrie 4.0 to a new level.”
Press Release | 26. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Qualcomm set up the first private standalone 5G network in an industrial environment

    Sustainable technological cooperation for the future of industrial wireless communication
    Joint Proof of Concept in a real industrial environment using the 3.7-3.8 GHz band
    Researching the capabilities of 5G standalone networks for industrial applications

Siemens and Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. have implemented the first private 5G standalone (SA) network in a real industrial environment using the 3.7-3.8GHz band. Both companies have joined forces in this project: Siemens is providing the actual industrial test conditions and end devices such as Simatic control systems and IO devices and Qualcomm Technologies is supplying the 5G test network and the relevant test equipment. The 5G network was installed in Siemens’ Automotive Showroom and Test Center in Nuremberg. Automated guided vehicles are (AGV) displayed here which are primarily used in the automotive industry. New manufacturing options and methods are also developed, tested and presented before they are put into action on customer sites. This allows Siemens’ customers, such as automated guided vehicle manufacturers, to see the products interact live.
Press Release | 26. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens launches new starters for smaller motors and improved system monitoring

    New devices for electrical installations in industrial and infrastructure environments with a lower nominal current of 0.1 to 0.4 amperes
    Firmware update with improved control and diagnostic functions
    Failsafe group shutdown function without additional wiring

Siemens Smart Infrastructure is adding four new devices to its portfolio of Simatic ET 200SP motor starters, which can be used to start electric drives with a power output from 0.1 to 0.4 amperes (A). These types of drives are found in fans and coolant pumps, for example. The compact motor starters are installed in control cabinets and are designed to start single and three-phase motors of machines and systems, protecting them against overloads and short-circuits. They are each available in standard and safety variants.
Press Release | 26. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries
Engineering framework ready for continuous software development

    New Version V16 of the TIA Portal engineering framework with focus on standardization and continuous integration
    Enhanced engineering efficiency with distributed working in the developer team
    Increased software quality thanks to integrated Test Suite
    Transparent operation with cross-vendor OPC UA communication

With the new TIA Portal V16 (Totally Integrated Automation Portal), Siemens has expanded its engineering framework with practical new functions for various phases from planning, to engineering, to commissioning. The innovations concentrate on the continuous integration of the development process. These include standardization, integrated engineering spread across teams and an integrated function test. This enables users to increase the quality of their software, shorten commissioning times and reduce engineering costs.
Press Release | 26. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens at the SPS 2019
At "SPS – Smart Production Solutions" 2019, Siemens will present sector-specific applications and future technologies for the digital transformation of the discrete and process industries. At the heart of the 4000 square meter booth will be new products, solutions and services from the Digital Enterprise portfolio, which can be used to merge the real and virtual world.  On November 26, the first day of SPS, Klaus Helmrich spoke at the Siemens press conference, which took place in the trade show Convention Center. Mr Helmrich discussed the latest trends in digitalization and the next stage of digital transformation in the discrete and process industries.
Nuremberg | 25. Nov 2019 - 27. Nov 2019 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries Save the date
Analyze MyDrives V1.0 available as standard in MindSphere Store and Sinamics Connect 300 with new intelligent features
At SPS 2019, Siemens presents its latest solutions for smart and networked drive technology. By networking entire drive systems, machine and plant builders as well as users can simulate machines and plant more accurately using digital twins, perform commissioning, reduce downtimes and therefore increase productivity.
Press Release | 25. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Extended life cycles - Customized retrofit for drive systems increases plant efficiency
Siemens is replacing its proven Micromaster drives with converters from the current Sinamics portfolio. With this technology exchange rate of the group, the optimal conditions, the demands of the markets for more performance and higher functionality are met. From October 2019, the production of the Service Micromaster will be phased out. With the drive system Retrofit Service for Micromaster you increase the investment security as well as the energy efficiency and reliability of your production. You'll also be opening the Sinamics components to the TIA and the digital world.
News | 22. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
New level of engine simulation - Siemens portfolio expansion supports modeling of combustion engines
Siemens Digital Industries Software is expanding its Simcenter Star-CCM+ simulation software with a new version that can be used for combustion engine modeling. With the new version of the software for the simulation of products and designs, engineers can use new physical models to optimize the realism and fidelity of their simulations. In addition, the new version now also offers the hotly anticipated option of simulating the capacity of combustion systems as well as time-saving tools that allow engineers to make better decisions in hours instead of weeks. 
News | 21. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Simatic PCS neo: Completely web-based process control system
Control rooms of process engineering plants are usually as old as the plant itself, often 30 years and more. Today, digital transformation is placing new demands on automation: Simatic PCS neo is a brand-new system software, which offers companies in the process industry unique opportunities in the age of digitalization. Main features include global web-based collaboration in engineering and operation and intuitive handling representing all relevant information in a single workbench.
Feature | 21. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
New measuring devices from Siemens capture energy data with higher accuracy

    Exact recording of energy consumption and electrical parameters
    Secure data transfer over existing communication networks
    Flexible use in industrial and commercial buildings as well as data centers

Siemens Smart Infrastructure has added the 7KM PAC3220 and 7KM PAC3120 measuring devices to its Sentron power monitoring portfolio. These devices capture energy and system data from buildings, infrastructure and industrial facilities and transfer them via standard communication protocols to higher-level energy management, automation and IoT systems. This data can then be used to identify energy hogs, detect system malfunctions as early as possible and proactively prevent downtimes. This allows companies to sustainably boost their energy efficiency and system availability. The new devices offer higher accuracy than the previous models and have a new design. 
Press Release | 21. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Simatic Micro-Drive F-TM Servodrive adds protective extra-low voltage range to the drive portfolio

    Easy connection to Simatic controllers using plug-in connectors
    Integration in TIA Portal supports quick commissioning

Simatic Micro-Drive F-TM Servodrive is the newest member of the Simatic Micro-Drive family. The servo drive system comprises a Simatic Micro-Drive F-TM Servodrive drive controller module, the Simatic ET 200SP and universal motors and plug-in cables. It adds to the Simatic Micro-Drive PDC (ProfiDriveControl) and completes the drive portfolio in the protective extra-low voltage range for EC motors from 24 to 48 volts. The drive controller module supports dynamic and accurate positioning in a small amount of space in the performance range up to 280 watts.
Press Release | 21. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Growth for the all-round power supply - Siemens extends its portfolio of power supply units to include 3-phase devices
At the fair Smart Production Solutions (SPS) 2019, Siemens is presenting new 3-phase 24-volt power supply units within its Sitop PSU6200 product line, extending the scope of application of its standard power supplies.
News | 20. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens at the formnext 2019
Under the motto "Thinking industrialized Additive Manufacturing further", Siemens will be presenting its comprehensive portfolio for the industrialization of additive manufacturing at formnext 2019, the leading trade fair for additive manufacturing and 3D printing, tailored to the respective industries. With the concept of the Digital Enterprise portfolio, Siemens is pursuing a holistic approach - from the point of view of machine builders and machine users alike. With the Digital Enterprise portfolio, Siemens offers a holistic, end-to-end solution to leverage a seamless value chain from functional design through manufacturing to value-added services.The range of industrial software and automation also includes leading simulation software and CNC technology. The Digital Enterprise portfolio enables the full utilization of digital twins that reflect the real world for machine users and machine manufacturers to ensure "first-time-right" printing.  Siemens at Formnext 2019 can be found in Hall 12.1 D81. 
Frankfurt am Main | 19. Nov 2019 - 22. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries Save the date
Simatic Drive Controller – the new motion controller with integrated drive control

    Simatic S7-1500 controller with expanded motion control functionality and Sinamics S120 drive control in one device – thus saving space
    Powerful for high-end applications, with integrated safety functionality for the controller and drive
    Extensive communication interfaces, technology I/Os, as well as cross-PLC synchronous operation for an easy implementation of modular machine concepts
    Proven engineering in the TIA Portal

Siemens is expanding its product portfolio of technology CPUs with the Simatic Drive Controller. The new controller combines a Simatic S7-1500 controller with motion control, technology and safety functionality with a Sinamics S120 drive control in one device, thus saving space. This makes it easy to implement requirements for powerful, compact and flexible automation solutions. The high performance of the new controller is particularly beneficial for applications with many axes where a multi-axis drive system is used – for example in packaging, printing and textile machines.
Press Release | 19. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens opens Additive Manufacturing Network
Siemens announced today the official launch and general availability of the Siemens Additive Manufacturing (AM) Network, following pilots and successful implementations with customers and partners, including Decathlon, Siemens Gas & Power, Siemens Mobility, HP and Materialise. The Siemens AM Network provides an advanced cloud-based solution to foster collaboration and process orchestration between engineers, procurement and suppliers of 3D printed parts. Providing an end-to-end digital process that connects the demand for parts with a supplier network helps enable globally distributed manufacturing. The Siemens Additive Manufacturing Network will be featured at Formnext 2019 in Frankfurt, Germany. 
Press Release | 19. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens expands portfolio and partnerships to further industrialize Additive Manufacturing

    Extension of seamless software and automation solutions in the Digital Enterprise portfolio drive forward the industrialization of additive manufacturing for machine builders and users 
    Expansion of partner network advances industrial additive applications
    New: AM factory planning now offered by IoT Services Consulting
    Siemens Additive Manufacturing Network is now globally available

Under the slogan “Thinking industrialized Additive Manufacturing further!”, Siemens is exhibiting at Formnext 2019, the leading global trade fair dedicated to additive manu-facturing and all of its upstream and downstream processes, where it will present its entire solution portfolio for industrialized additive manufacturing, tailored to specific in-dustries. With the Digital Enterprise portfolio, the company is offering a comprehen¬sive end-to-end solution for the entire value chain from function-driven design through manufacturing to services. The portfolio of industrial software and automation also in-cludes leading simulation software and CNC technology. With its Digital Enterprise portfolio, Siemens supports the complete use of digital twins, which simulate the real world for machine manufacturers and users in order to ensure the correct manufac-ture of a component on the very first attempt.
Press Release | 19. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Holistic energy concept increases efficiency of paper mills in Germany

    Maximizing performance and efficiency with innovative drives solution
    Three power plants will be equipped with latest-generation power generation equipment

The current increase of packaging and pulp demand in the fiber industry is accompanied by numerous challenges, including fluctuating costs of energy and raw materials. Siemens energy-efficient concepts and solutions are designed to help the paper industry set new global standards for efficiency, performance, and sustainability. A recent example is a project in Germany, where Siemens will help paper and packaging producer Palm increase its plant efficiency by providing a holistic energy concept. This includes the electrification of a new paper-machine production line and a new power plant equipped with the latest-generation gas turbine.
Press Release | 19. Nov 2019 | Gas and Power
Simulation solution via cloud - Companies of any size benefit from expanded SaaS portfolio for simulations
Siemens Digital Industries Software is expanding its Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) portfolio to include Simcenter Amesim (simulation software for modeling and analysis of multidomain systems) and Simcenter 3D (environment for 3D Computer aided Engineering, CAE). SaaS is part of cloud computing and means that the software used is operated by an external service provider and used by the customer. With the expanded Software-as-a-Service portfolio, engineers can create high-end simulations cost-effectively, which particularly benefits small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). With a monthly subscription, customers can access a modular function library and set up a pay-per-use computer infrastructure.
News | 19. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
First order for Vectron Dual Mode

    Railsystems RP GmbH orders two locomotives from Siemens Mobility
    Sustainable concept: a combined diesel and electric locomotive
    Delivery at the end of 2020

Railsystems RP GmbH has ordered two Vectron Dual Mode locomotives from Siemens Mobility, marking the first order for the new locomotive that can be operated either as a diesel or electric unit. Siemens Mobility first presented the concept at the InnoTrans 2018. 
Press Release | 18. Nov 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Modern security management - Digital companies benefit from a new version of Network Management System
With the new version V1.0 SP1 of Sinec NMS Network Management System, Siemens is offering even more opportunities for the management of large data volumes and complex network structures as well as an overview of security-related network topics. V1.0 SP1 provides central, policy-based firewall and Network Address Translation (NAT) management for the convenient configuration of firewall components from a central point. In addition, Sinec NMS now supports the central documentation of user activities via audit trails. With Sinec NMS V1.0 SP1, tens of thousands of devices can be centrally monitored, managed and configured in any industrial sector in networks of different sizes and with varying segmentation. 
News | 18. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens delivers PEM electrolyzer for Salzgitter AG

    Contract awarded to Siemens for 2.2 megawatt PEM electrolysis plant
    Salzgitter Wind Hydrogen energy project gathers pace
    Goal is to achieve low-CO2 steelmaking based on Salzgitter’s innovative SALCOS technology concept

Salzgitter Flachstahl GmbH (SZFG) has awarded the contract to build a 2.2 megawatt PEM electrolysis plant (PEM = Proton Exchange Membrane) to Siemens Gas and Power, marking an important step towards hydrogen-based steelmaking. The plant is due to commence operation in the 4th quarter of 2020 and cover SZFG’s entire current demand for hydrogen. The necessary electrical power will be generated by seven wind turbines with a capacity of 30 megawatt. These will be erected by Avacon AG on the Salzgitter Group site and will likewise enter service from 2020.
Press Release | 18. Nov 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens introduces AM Path Optimizer technology integrated in NX for additive manufacturing
Siemens Digital Industries Software today announced Additive Manufacturing (AM) Path Optimizer, a beta technology integrated in NX™ software, to help customers solve overheating challenges and help reduce scrap and increase production yield to achieve the industrialization of AM, or the use of AM at the industrial scale. Siemens has developed this next generation advanced simulation technology to help maximize the production yield and quality of powder bed fusion manufactured parts. This latest extension of Siemens’ end-to-end additive manufacturing solution feeds the digital thread, informing each step of the industrialized additive manufacturing process.
Press Release | 18. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens adds material modeling to Simcenter through acquisition of MultiMechanics

    Acquisition to expand ability to create a comprehensive digital twin with addition of material modeling
    Siemens to integrate MultiMechanics’ TRUE Multiscale simulation technology with Simcenter 3D software to accelerate innovation and adoption of advanced materials

Siemens announced today that it has signed an agreement to acquire MultiMechanics, Inc., developer of MultiMech finite element software that helps companies virtually predict failure in advanced materials at an unprecedented level of speed and accuracy. The company plans to integrate MultiMechanics into Siemens Digital Industries Software, which will add the ability for customers to create a digital twin of materials by closely integrating materials engineering with part design, performance engineering, and manufacturing through the unique TRUE Multiscale™ technology for a broad range of material-driven applications. MultiMechanics’ technology helps companies to efficiently predict material properties and behavior, including failure starting at the microstructural level, at an unprecedented level of speed and accuracy. This unique technology will be incorporated into Simcenter™ software within Siemens’ Xcelerator portfolio, implementing materials engineering into the digital workflow and establishing a pervasive link between material developers, manufacturing process developers and part designers.
Press Release | 15. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
VAG orders 12 trams from Siemens Mobility

    VAG Nürnberg orders 12 Avenio trams
    Option for up to 75 additional trams
    Innovative interior concept for enhanced passenger comfort

VAG Verkehrs-Aktiengesellschaft Nürnberg has ordered 12 four-section Avenio trams. The contract includes options for a total of up to 75 additional trams. The trams will serve on possible new lines or be used to expand VAG’s existing offering. Commissioning is planned for the end of 2022.
Press Release | 15. Nov 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Future-proof remote access - New product features and updates extend possible applications for remote terminal units
Siemens is extending the possible applications of Simatic remote terminal units (RTUs) through the new Simatic RTU3041C and firmware update V4.0 for the RTU3000C family. The new RTU with integrated modem supports new applications for LTE-M (Long Term Evolution for Machines) and NB-IoT (Narrowband Internet of Things)mobile wireless networks for low power applications. The third-party Simatic PDM Process Device Manager tool for the configuration and diagnostics of field devices enables convenient remote access. The firmware update for the RTU3000C device family features improvements in the configuration of the control application and the use of security-relevant functions.
News | 15. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Interdisciplinary cooperation - Collaborative solution makes it easy to generate simulation models
Siemens Digital Industries Software is expanding the Simcenter portfolio and presenting new Simcenter System Analyst software. This collaborative solution can be used to create industry-specific applications for the control of system simulation models. The software helps deploy system simulations throughout an entire company, expanding model usage to all levels of users, and helping ensure model continuity without changing the internal processes.
News | 14. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Sinamics Startdrive V16 brings new hardware and new functions to the TIA Portal

    Sinamics Startdrive V16 brings a single-axis version of Sinamics S120 to the TIA Portal.
    Innovative functions simplify safety approval, reduce commissioning times and increase user-friendliness.

Sinamics Startdrive commissioning software is the perfect tool for integrating drive hardware into the TIA Portal engineering framework. With the latest version Sinamics Startdrive V16, Siemens is expanding the hardware portfolio available on the automation platform. Following on from the integration of the Sinamics S120 multi-axis system, the single-axis version of this high-end servo drive system can now also be engineered in the TIA Portal. The drive control of the recently introduced Simatic Drive Controller is now also integrated in the commissioning tool. Drive-CliQ hubs, which increase the number of interfaces in the Sinamics S120 multi-axis group, as well as other add-on components, are now integrated in the TIA Portal, perfectly completing this hardware update. 
Press Release | 14. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to retrofit one of the largest substations in Germany

    Two new indoor GIS systems increase power and ensure reliable supply for consumers
    Clean Air products ensure much more climate-friendly operation
    Turnkey solution provides key support for transition to a new energy mix

German transmission grid operator TransnetBW has commissioned Siemens to build new switchgear in the 380 kilovolt (kV) Daxlanden substation in Karlsruhe, Baden-Württemberg. Two new gas-insulated indoor switchgear, initially with 26 panels, will boost the substation's transmission capacity and cover the increased transport demand in the German high-voltage grid as a result of the transition to a new energy mix. In the future, it will thus be possible to transport large quantities of wind energy from northern Germany to the southern part of the country. Replacing sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) with treated air, so-called Clean Air, as the insulating medium in the bus ducts simultaneously ensures much more climate-friendly operation. The commissioning of the turnkey solution will take place in stages and be completed in 2029. The order is priced in the low triple-digit millions range.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens Mobility delivers seven Mireo trains for DB Regio

    Third Mireo order from DB Regio
    Service in the Karlsruhe 7b network
    Passenger comfort and sustainably increased value over entire lifecycle

DB Regio, the regional transport business of Deutsche Bahn AG, has ordered seven Mireo trains from Siemens Mobility. The trains will operate on the regional express route between Karlsruhe and Heidelberg/Mannheim via Bruchsal in the Karlsruhe 7b network. They will be built at the Siemens Mobility plant in Krefeld, Germany, and their delivery is planned for the end of 2022.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens and juwi enter strategic partnership for microgrids in the mining industry

    New trend to supply renewable energy for mines as secure and cost-efficient alternative to fossil fuels 
    Siemens' proven microgrid controller serves as technical basis for juwi's Hybrid IQ microgrid solutions
    Two projects in Australia successfully delivered, paving way for partners to roll-out solution in other countries

Siemens and the renewable energy developer juwi have joined forces to enter into a strategic technology partnership to focus on microgrids in the mining industry. A corresponding agreement was signed today. The two companies aim to roll-out and continually develop the advanced microgrid control system that enables the seamless integration of power from renewable energy to a mine's off-grid power supply. The Siemens Sicam based microgrid control platform is a proven and tested technology which is the basis for juwi's Hybrid IQ microgrid controller. juwi, on the other hand, brings industry-specific domain know-how and an excellent track record of planning and executing renewable energy projects at mine sites. 
Press Release | 14. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens completes major overhaul project at power plant in Hungary

    Gas turbine rotor exchange allows for increased output and efficiency
    Control system upgraded to latest version of SPPA-T3000

The Dunamenti Power Plant in Százhalombatta, Hungary, is the largest gas-fired power plant in the country with a capacity of 794 megawatts (MW), making it a major source of reliable electricity in Hungary. Recently, in collaboration with the customer and plant owner, MET Asset Management AG, and within the scope of an overhaul project, Siemens Gas and Power replaced the entire rotor of the plant's SGT5-2000E gas turbine and installed a new, state-of-the-art SPPA-T3000 control system.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens launches Reyrolle 5 protection relay series

    Designed for future power networks and digital substations
    Enhanced cyber security and communications 
    User-friendly interfaces and software

With the new Reyrolle 5 series of protection relays, Siemens is further developing its offerings for medium-voltage and industrial power networks. The protection, control, monitoring and measuring of power networks is a vital element in managing electrical assets, increasing reliability, sustainability and the safety of operating personnel. The first device applications of the new generation of protection relay will be overcurrent and earth fault protection and transformer protection in substations. It includes comprehensive functionality as standard, with enhanced process data such as faults, events and waveform records enabling the power network to be effectively managed. The small number of device variants allows easy ordering and efficient engineering while the improved hardware platform makes it even easier to operate and manage the protection relays. 
Press Release | 13. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
CEAD and Siemens intensify collaboration for industrial 3D printing of large fiber reinforced polymer parts

    Successful collaboration to be showcased at Formnext 2019
    CEAD lightweight extruder to allow high deposition rate and large print volumes mounted on a robot
    Sinumerik Run MyRobot /Direct Control for precise printing with Comau robot and CEAD extruder

CEAD, technology supplier of 3D printing equipment on the frontier of large scale polymer, glass and carbon fibers 3D printing, and Siemens intensify their collaboration and showcase their latest development the AM Flexbot at the upcoming Formnext 2019, a leading trade fair for Additive Manufacturing, on the Siemens booth D81, Hall 12.1.
Press Release | 13. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Shaping the future together - Schaeffler and technology partner Siemens forge ahead with digital transformation
The Schaeffler Group is a global automotive and industrial supplier with its own Special Machinery department which develops production plants to customer specifications, particularly assembly lines, testing equipment, and handling systems. Schaeffler has embarked on a comprehensive digitalization strategy in order to be prepared for market challenges and to make optimum use of the opportunities provided by digitalization. To achieve this, the company has been relying for 30 years on solutions from its technology partner, Siemens, in addition to a user-oriented approach to development, modularization, and globally applied standards. First-hand information on this topic is available at the Smart Production Systems (SPS) trade fair in Nuremberg. Digital transformation in Schaeffler’s Special Machinery department and the contribution of digital connectivity is the subject of two presentations at SPS 2019 in Nuremberg. Holger Auernheimer, Schaeffler, and Markus Weinländer, Siemens, will be presenting application examples and communications architecture options for the industrial Internet of Things on November 27, 2019 at 1:55 pm on the main stage of the Siemens booth, Frankenhalle, Nuremberg.
News | 13. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens presents new version of its Braumat process control system

    New version 8.0 facilitates integration of Simatic S7-1500 controller as well as mixed operation with Simatic S7-400 controller operation with the Simatic S7-400 controller
    Improved production and batch transparency with new MES reporting options
    Enhanced safety concept with new functions
    Lean Edition for micro breweries and craft brewers

Siemens is presenting a new version of the Braumat brewery process control system at the BrauBeviale in Nuremberg: The latest version 8.0 is based on the Simatic S7-1500 controller and has been optimized in the areas of reporting, weighing systems and security. Already installed Simatic S7-400 controllers can still be used, including in mixed operation. Existing Braumat installations can be expanded or modernized with Simatic S7-1500 controller. Production downtimes caused by new installations are thus avoided.
Press Release | 12. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens expands offerings for IoT based energy automation applications for smart grids

    New Grid Diagnostic Suite offers unique comprehensive insights
    Gain a grid-wide view of energy automation systems
    Market launch of initially four cloud-enabled applications
    Enhances cost efficiency and availability of smart grids
    Support through digitalization in increasingly complex power grids

Siemens is presenting for the first time its new Grid Diagnostic Suite at the European Utility Week in Paris. The Grid Diagnostic Suite initially includes four cloud-based applications which collect data from new or existing field devices for protection, distribution automation and power quality. These data are stored and analyzed in the cloud. This requires almost no additional engineering effort. Distribution grid operators and operators of electricity grids in industrial parks can quickly tap into useful information from devices installed anywhere in the smart grid. This will enable grid faults, for example, to be detected at an early stage and quickly rectified. After information is collected, vulnerabilities can be identified, and necessary measures can be implemented before any damage occurs. In this way, Internet of Things (IoT) applications in the Grid Diagnostic Suite enhance the availability of power grids while enabling them to be operated cost-efficiently.
Press Release | 12. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
The Absolut Company begins collaboration with Siemens Digital Industries Software

    Company plans enterprise-wide rollout of Siemens Opcenter solutions to streamline production value chain 

Siemens Digital Industries Software announced today a collaboration with The Absolut Company regarding Siemens Opcenter™ Execution software, part of the Siemens Digital Enterprise Suite, Manufacturing Execution System (MES) solution. The company will conduct a pilot of Siemens Opcenter Execution Process (formerly known as SIMATIC IT® Unified Architecture Process Industries) in one of their three factories in Åhus as the first step of an enterprise-wide roll-out across the three factories which produce spirits for global distribution. Siemens Opcenter can help The Absolut Company to better meet some of the challenges in beverage market including the increasing demand for high quality and variety in products and production as well as the high cost pressures of the global food and beverage market.
Press Release | 12. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens expands additive manufacturing portfolio through acquisition of Atlas 3D

    Atlas 3D helps designers define optimal part orientations for ‘right first time’ 3D printing
    Cloud-based, GPU-accelerated Sunata™ software can reduce downstream 3D printing errors caused by thermal distortion up to one hundred times faster than other solutions on the market

Siemens announced today that it has signed an agreement to acquire Atlas 3D, Inc., a Plymouth, Indiana-based developer of software that works with direct metal laser sintering (DMLS) printers to automatically provide design engineers with the optimal print orientation and requisite support structures for additive parts in near real-time. Atlas 3D will join Siemens Digital Industries Software, where its solutions will expand additive manufacturing capabilities in the Xcelerator portfolio of software. 
Press Release | 12. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to upgrade steam power plant in Vietnam to combined cycle power plant

    Electrical capacity increased to approximately 1,200 megawatts
    Fired with regasified liquefied natural gas instead of oil
    Fifty percent lower CO2 emissions per kilowatt hour produced

Siemens will provide the equipment to upgrade the Hiep Phuoc 1 steam power plant in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, to a combined cycle power plant. This project will increase the plant’s electrical capacity by roughly 780 megawatts (MW) to approximately 1,200 MW. The modernized plant will be fired with regasified liquefied natural gas (LNG) instead of the oil that has been used to date. By changing the fuel, deploying modern F-class gas turbines from Siemens, and using the waste heat from the gas turbines to produce electricity, the CO2 emissions can be cut almost in half for each kilowatt hour produced on-site. With this project, the customer Hiep Phuoc Power Co. Ltd., will ensure a reliable, secure, and environmentally friendly power supply for Ho Chi Minh City and Vietnam.
Press Release | 12. Nov 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens at European Utility Week 2019
At this year’s European Utility Week (EUW) in Paris, Siemens Smart Infrastructure will demonstrate how it is driving energy intelligence across supply and demand. By helping shape the energy ecosystem across buildings, industry and the grid, Siemens is supporting government, cities and businesses with their sustainability goals. The company will focus on four topics that support the energy transition: sustainable grids, smart distribution, the Internet of Energy and grid edge.  By 2035, more than 50 percent of electricity is expected to be generated by renewables. In parallel, electricity consumption is forecast to double by 2050. Megatrends such as increasing urbanization and climate change are driving the need for electrification and decarbonization. Meanwhile, new applications in software and digitalization are making grids smarter and more efficient, creating new business models. 
| 11. Nov 2019 - 13. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Siemens new generator circuit-breaker offers high level of customization

    Highly compact design, up to 110 kiloamps 
    Maintenance-free up to 10,000 interrupting cycles at current of 15 kA 
    Based on proven HB3 generator platform with vacuum switching tech

Siemens is expanding its HB3 generator circuit-breaker portfolio with a new compact version. The HB3-Compact (HB3-C) offers the possibility for vertical or horizontal mounting and uses maintenance-free vacuum switching technology. These features make it especially valuable for retrofit applications in power plants, where the highest security of supply is crucial, and space is limited due to existing installations. The new system will be presented for the first time at the European Utility Week 2019, taking place in Paris from November 12 to 14.
Press Release | 11. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Remote access – secure and efficient: Version 2.1 extends scope of functions of management platform for remote networks
Siemens is offering a new version for Sinema Remote Connect, the management platform for remote networks. With V 2.1, secured remote access to machines and plants with central user management and central logging is now supported. Security-relevant activities can be logged and transferred easily to higher-level systems. In addition, the new version features a connection to a User Management Component (UMC) system, which offers central user management and connection to Active Directory. This increases transparency and ensures convenient management of assigned access rights. With V 2.1, users benefit from particularly efficient remote access, easy and secure user management and reliable transmission of activities.
News | 11. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Running Edge Computing applications in harsh environments
Siemens is extending its Industrial Edge system to networks in harsh environments with the newly launched Ruggedcom APE1808. This utility-grade application processing engine is based on Intel Quad Core x86_64 architecture with an eight gigabyte Random Access Memory (RAM) and 64 gigabyte hard disk storage and plugs directly into select devices of the Ruggedcom RX1500 multi-service platform. With a display port video connector, micro SD (Standard Definition) card port, two USB (Universal Serial Bus) 3.0 ports and two gigabit Ethernet ports, the Ruggedcom APE1808 can support extended operating characteristics. 
News | 08. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Earnings Release Q4 FY 2019

    Orders increased 7% to €98.0 billion and revenue rose 5% to €86.8 billion; the book-to-bill ratio was 1.13
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, orders rose 6% and revenue increased 3%, with the majority of industrial businesses contributing to growth
    Adjusted EBITA Industrial Businesses increased slightly to €9.0 billion, including a clear increase for Siemens Healthineers; most other industrial businesses close to prior-year levels
    Adjusted EBITA margin Industrial Businesses was 10.9%; excluding severance charges of €0.5 billion, Adjusted EBITA margin was 11.5%, well within the guidance range of 11% to 12%
    Net income of €5.6 billion, below the prior year which included largely tax-free gains from the transfer of Siemens’ shares in Atos SE to Siemens Pension-Trust e.V. and the sale of OSRAM Licht AG shares; basic earnings per share (EPS) at €6.41; basic EPS excluding severance charges were €6.93, at the top end of the guidance range of €6.30 to €7.00
    Free cash flow was €5.8 billion, level with the prior year
    Siemens proposes to raise the dividend €0.10 per share, to €3.90 per share 

Press Release | 07. Nov 2019 | Siemens AG
Annual Press Conference 2019
We released our financial figures for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2019 on November 7, 2019. The Press Conference and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
Munich | 07. Nov 2019 - 07. Nov 2019 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens supplies HL-class power island to South Korea

    First order from Asia for HL-class gas turbine
    New power plant with a capacity of more than one gigawatt
    Efficiency rating of more than 63 percent 

Siemens will set up a high-efficiency HL-class power island for a new combined cycle power plant (CCPP) in South Korea. This will be the first two state-of-the-art HL-class gas turbines that Siemens will supply to a customer in Asia. The new plant, which will be built in Yeoju, in South Korea’s Gyeonggi Province, will run on regasified liquefied natural gas (LNG) and offer a generating capacity of more than one gigawatt. With a maximum efficiency rating of more than 63 percent the gas turbine will allow the power station to get the most out of the valuable LNG for electricity generation, enabling especially economical and environmentally friendly operation. The customer is South Korean EPC SK Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd., which is constructing the entire plant for the independent power producer Yeoju Energy Services. 
Press Release | 06. Nov 2019 | Gas and Power
Reliable beer production
The Badische Staatsbrauerei Rothaus AG (Rothaus) has been brewing beer in the Black Forest since 1791. In order to remain fit for the future, this traditional company knows that a reliable production network is essential. This includes redundant ring structures, high data transmission rates and protected access. To achieve this ultra-modern form of communication, Rothaus has worked closely with Siemens and HWI IT. The jointly developed concept was implemented during operation and supports the digital transformation of the brewery. Rothaus now benefits from a fast, access-protected, failsafe, and highly available production network, which is open for future developments and expansions. 
News | 06. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Maria Ferraro to become Siemens’ new Chief Diversity Officer

    Ferraro to take on this role, effective December 1, 2019, in addition to her position as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) at Siemens Digital Industries 
    In this role, she will report to Deputy CEO and future Labor Director Roland Busch

Maria Ferraro (46), Chief Financial Officer at Digital Industries, will become the new Chief Diversity Officer (CDO) of Siemens AG, effective December 1, 2019. In her capacity as CDO, she will be succeeding Janina Kugel, whose contract will expire at the end of January 2020. Ferraro will take on the new position in addition to her leadership role as CFO at the Digital Industries Operating Company. As Chief Diversity Officer, she will report directly to Deputy CEO Roland Busch, who will be succeeding Janina Kugel as Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) and Labor Director, effective December 1, 2019.
Press Release | 06. Nov 2019 | Siemens AG
New Mindsphere app from Siemens supports Predictive Services for Drive Systems

    Efficient and future-proof maintenance with Predictive Services for Drive Systems
    New Mindsphere Predictive Service Assistance app provides digital support for the service portfolio, while also offering transparency and streamlined ordering processes
    Predictive Services for Drive Systems for increased productivity and reduced downtimes for machines and plants

With Predictive Services for Drive Systems, Siemens presents a standardized extension to the local service agreement at this year’s SPS. This is based on the new Mindsphere Predictive Service Assistance app. It makes maintenance more efficient for Sinamics drive systems and/or Simotics motors in the low voltage range.
Press Release | 05. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens’ new Sirius soft starters enable safe, efficient motor switching

    First soft starter series with integrated Safe Torque Off function
    Enhanced protection when shutting down electric motors
    High functional density saves space and decreases cost

Siemens Smart Infrastructure expanded its soft starters portfolio for motors, with the launch of Sirius 3RW55 Failsafe and Sirius 3RW50. Soft starters ensure electrical motors used in industry and infrastructure are protected during startup and ramp-down. The Sirius 3RW55 Failsafe soft starters are the first to feature the integrated Safe Torque Off (STO) function. As specified in safety standards, the protection function for electrical drive systems ensures that torque-generating energy stops acting when motors are turned off, preventing an unwanted restart. Control panel manufacturers no longer require using separate individual components to have this function, which reduces the time and effort for wiring and maintenance works and saves space in the control cabinet. In addition, the switching time of the integrated solution is significantly shorter than for conventional, electromechanical components.
Press Release | 05. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries
Simotics HV M slipring motor provides fast return on investment in Cement and Mining industries

    New Simotics HV M slipring motors provide range of power up to 4.5 MW
    Easy integration into SIDRIVE IQ applications for highest availability, serviceability, productivity and efficiency 
    Easy plant integration due to 3-D Motor models to speed up complete plant integration processes
    Certified and proven Siemens MICALASTIC® VPI insulation system with extreme long lifetime

Building on more than a century of experience in manufacturing slipring motors, Siemens today announces the new Simotics HV M slipring motor. Designed and engineered for applications mainly in the cement and mining industries, the newest slipring motor is implemented in a wide range of applications including but not limited to mills, crushers, conveyors and fans. The new platform motor with its power range up to 4.5 MW completes the Siemens slipring motor family which covers now the power range from 0.5 to 8.2 MW. 
Press Release | 05. Nov 2019 | Portfolio Companies
Siemens presents approach for a smart and sustainable energy ecosystem
At this year’s European Utility Week (EUW) in Paris, Siemens Smart Infrastructure will demonstrate how it is driving energy intelligence across supply and demand. By helping shape the energy ecosystem across buildings, industry and the grid, Siemens is supporting government, cities and businesses with their sustainability goals. The company will focus on four topics that support the energy transition: sustainable grids, smart distribution, the Internet of Energy and grid edge.
Press Release | 04. Nov 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens to digitalize the Norwegian railway network
Bane NOR, the state-owned agency responsible for the Norwegian national railway infrastructure, has contracted Siemens to upgrade the signaling equipment of the entire Norwegian rail network to the European Train Control System (ETCS). Commissioning of the rollout lines is scheduled to be completed by 2034. The contract also includes services for 25 years and is worth around 800 million euros in total. 
Feature | 04. Nov 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Transparent automation - New communication module for maximum flexibility
Siemens is further extending its hardware portfolio for communication modules. The new Simatic RF166C offers impressive extended features and a modern design. It supports the integration of up to two Simatic RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) readers or optical readers of the Simatic MV series into Profibus networks. Due to complete compatibility with the previous model ASM 456 in terms of functionality and programming, changing to the new modules is extremely easy. New L-coded M12 connectors enable a high current feedthrough of up to 16 amperes in a line topology, thus reducing cabling effort.
News | 04. Nov 2019 | Digital Industries
Bane NOR and Siemens Mobility celebrate milestone in digitalization of Norway’s rail network

    Campus Nyland test, training and signaling simulation center opens
    European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) latest in intelligent infrastructure
    Nordlandsbanen will open first digital signaling railway in October 2022

Bane NOR and Siemens Mobility celebrated the opening of Campus Nyland, a test, training and signaling simulation center which will help the rail network operator prepare for the digitalization of the entire system. Norway has committed to becoming the first country to operate with a single digital interlocking and ERTMS signifies one of the country’s largest digitalization projects. In 2022, the first digital line, Nordlandsbanen, will open. In advance, the Campus Nyland center will prepare workers for working within the digital system, ERTMS. The intelligent infrastructure behind ERTMS will reduce operating costs and increase capacity throughout the network. In addition, it will enhance safety, with real-time visibility of trains across the network. When complete in 2034, the system will include 4,200 km of track and more than 350 stations. 
Press Release | 31. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
T-Systems and Siemens partner to drive the digitalization of German industry
T-Systems and Siemens today announced a partnership to offer new end-to-end solutions that combine their respective capabilities in Information Technology (IT), Telecommunications (TC) and Operational Technology (OT). The joint solutions will cover enterprise business applications like Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Supply Chain Management (SCM) and Manufacturing Engineering Systems (MES), with TC solutions helping to enable real-time interaction and collaboration and OT solutions covering shop floor-based driving engineering, production or operation processes. The new solutions can help companies leverage a full range of technologies, which have the potential to reinvent German industry, including Cloud, 5G and Edge Computing.
Press Release | 30. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Controlled access - Companies benefit from new reader for controlled access
Siemens is extending its RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) portfolio to include the new Simatic RF1040R reader. This reader supports the standards for low frequency (LF) transponders, which means that companies with existing employee ID cards based on the low frequency range (LF; 125 kHz -kilohertz) can now benefit from Simatic RF1040R. Existing employee ID cards can be used for the individual control of access rights to plants and machines. Secured and documented access to machines preventsoperating errors, and the configuration card (Config card) can be used for customer-specific parameterization of the readers.
News | 30. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Bangkok Blue Line expands passenger service with Siemens Mobility metro trains

    Key section of the Blue Line extension enters revenue service
    Features 14 new metro trains
    Greater availability and enhanced passenger experience
    Turnkey project includes metro trains, rail infrastructure, system integration, project management as well as service and maintenance

Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand (MRTA) Bangkok Expressway and Metro Public Company Limited (BEM) and CH. Karnchang Public Company Limited launched revenue service on a key section of the Blue Line Extension in late September. BEM is operating 14 new metro cars delivered by Siemens Mobility on the extension. This is the latest milestone of the turnkey project which include delivering 35 three-car metro trains, the signaling system, the traction power supply, passenger information system, SCADA, depot workshop equipment, system integration and project management as well as a 10-year maintenance contract for the line’s expansion project. The full Blue Line extension will be commissioned in spring 2020. 
Press Release | 29. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens announces new management team for Siemens Energy
A key milestone on the way to independence: Siemens Energy presented its new management team to its employees today. In addition to an Executive Board, the company will have an expanded international management team, the Group Management Committee. Once Siemens Energy becomes a legally separate entity, this team will be instrumental in implementing the company’s strategic approach. “Announcing the management team is a further critical step on the way to becoming an independent company and an energy pure play. It will enable Siemens Energy to further develop its management system and then focus fully on the requirements of its customers and markets,” said Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG.
Press Release | 28. Oct 2019 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Clever combination - New simulation solution
Siemens Digital Industries Software presents the latest addition to its portfolio: the new Simcenter system simulation solution. This simulation software supports industrial companies in the creation of precise system modeling which is both cost-efficient and competitive. Simcenter System Simulation combines Simcenter Amesim software, a simulation platform for mechatronic systems, and Simcenter Flomaster, a vertical solution for thermo-fluid systems of any size and complexity. With this pooled solution users benefit from increased user-friendliness and openness for their applications. The simulations with Simcenter also make it easier to develop new products.
News | 28. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
New trains for Berlin's S-Bahn
S-Bahn Berlin GmbH has signed a framework contract with the consortium of Stadler Pankow GmbH and Siemens for the delivery of up to 1,380 vehicles. A firm order was placed for the first 106 trains. The 85 four-section and 21 two-section trains have a high triple-digit million-euro order volume. S-Bahn Berlin, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bahn, plans to use the new trains on the Ringbahn lines (S 41 and S 42) as well as on the system's southeastern feeder lines S 47, S 46 and S 8. These lines comprise roughly one-third of the entire S-Bahn network in Berlin. The first ten vehicles will be ready to enter service as of 2020. Subsequently, all remaining vehicles will be delivered continuously to the Berlin system up to 2023. The vehicles will be manufactured and assembled at the Berlin plant operated by Stadler Pankow GmbH.
Feature | 24. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Hanna Hennig named Siemens’ new Chief Information Officer

    Helmuth Ludwig to leave the company at his own request
    Siemens’ IT organization to support Vision 2020+ execution 

At the beginning of 2020, Hanna Hennig (50) will become the new Chief Information Officer (CIO) at Siemens. In this capacity, she will be responsible for the company’s global IT organization and will report directly to Roland Busch, Deputy CEO of Siemens. Hennig is currently still CIO at Osram Licht AG in Munich. She will succeed Helmuth Ludwig (57), who will leave the company at his own request and by mutual agreement at the end of December 2019. Ludwig has been working at Siemens for about 30 years in a variety of roles inside and outside Germany. In the future, he will be dedicating more time to teaching at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas (USA), where he has been an adjunct professor for international corporate strategy for the past six years. 
Press Release | 24. Oct 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens plans the acquisition of Edge technology

    Siemens further expands its digitalization portfolio for industry
    Technology basis is the Docker IT standard
    Siemens Industrial Edge ecosystem enables easy and flexible use of Edge apps

Siemens is planning the acquisition of Edge technology from the US company Pixeom. With this action, Siemens is strengthening its Industrial Edge portfolio by adding software components for Edge runtime and for device management. Siemens Industrial Edge provides an ecosystem, which enables the flexible provision and use of apps. This means for example that appropriate apps can analyze data locally at the machine and send relevant data to the higher-level Industrial Edge Management System for global analytics. With this acquisition, Siemens is driving forward the expansion of its Digital Enterprise portfolio and the integration of cutting-edge technologies for the digital transformation of industry. 
Press Release | 24. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to supply gas turbines for new power plant in Pakistan

    Pakistan’s K-Electric awarded Siemens and China’s Harbin Electric International a contract to build a 900-megawatt combined cycle power plant at the Bin Qasim Power Complex in Karachi 
    Siemens to supply two F-class gas turbines, steam turbines, generators and condensers

Siemens along with partner Harbin Electric International, signed an agreement with K-Electric to build a 900-megawatt combined cycle power plant at the Bin Qasim Power Complex in Karachi. 
Press Release | 24. Oct 2019 | Gas and Power
Nuremberg orders new metro trains from Siemens
The VAG Verkehrs-Aktiengesellschaft Nuremberg has ordered 27 type G1 four-car metro trains from Siemens Mobility. The contract also includes an option for a total of a further 7 trains. These trains are earmarked for service on Nuremberg's U1 line. The trains will be built in the Siemens Mobility plant in Vienna. Core components of the G1 will be manufactured in the Nuremberg metropolitan area and include such products as the drive converters, traction motors, auxiliary converter units and control equipment. The project management, development and service support will be provided from Erlangen.
Feature | 23. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Enhancement for test scenarios - New version of simulation software
Siemens is releasing a new version of the Simcenter Testlab software suite. This software solution supports users in data acquisition and analysis as well as modeling simulations.The new version features numerous functions for test scenarios. As a result, test-based data will now be used not only for validation and certification purposes, but also earlier in the development cycle, during simulation and design. This in turn helps engineers to increase the efficiency of their simulations and to develop smart solutions under tight schedules.
News | 23. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens receives SCATS certificate for “Sitraffic sX” traffic light controller

    Sydney Coordinated Adaptive Traffic System (SCATS) Certification
    Supports cutting-edge intelligent infrastructure
    Certificate given at ITS World Congress 

Siemens Mobility’ traffic light controller “Sitraffic sX” is certified as compatible with the urban traffic control system SCATS (a registered trademark Sydney Coordinated Adaptive Traffic System). New South Wales’ agency for road infrastructure and owner of the registered trademark SCATS system, Road and Maritime Services (RMS), has granted Siemens the certification after a substantial period of integration development and testing. The Compatibility Certificate confirms that Siemens Mobility’s “Sitraffic sX” traffic light controller has been tested and evaluated by RMS to functionally operate with SCATS. The official hand-over of the Certificate from RMS to Siemens Mobility took place during a ceremony at the 26th ITS World Congress 2019 in Singapore at Siemens Mobility booth.
Press Release | 22. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
BLS Cargo orders 25 locomotives from Siemens Mobility

    25 multisystem Vectron MS locomotives for maximum flexibility
    Cross-border operations on the North-South Corridor
    Deliveries begin at the end of 2020

The Swiss rail freight company BLS Cargo has ordered 25 Vectron MS locomotives from Siemens Mobility for planned operation on the North-South Corridor. They will be used in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium. Delivery of the locomotives will be carried out in several phases from the end of 2020 to 2025. With this order, the Vectron fleet operated by BLS Cargo will grow to a total of 40 locomotives. The company previously ordered 15 locomotives from Siemens Mobility in 2015.
Press Release | 21. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
ITS World Congress 2019 Singapore
With growing populations, cities are becoming increasingly congested, with more traffic and longer commutes. Efficiency and safety of road traffic remain top priority for many cities. By offering autonomous shuttle systems, public transport operators and cities seek to draw passengers and make public transport more attractive. At the ITS World Congress in Singapore, Siemens Mobility is examining how Singapore is transforming its transportation ecosystem, delivering an outlook on intelligent traffic systems (ITS) projects within the Asia-Pacific region as well as showcasing advances in autonomous mobility coming to life at the CETRAN test facility. 
| 21. Oct 2019 - 25. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility Save the date
Mobility for the future - Manufacturer of zero-emission vehicles relies on Siemens for battery development
Lion Electric Co. (Lion) manufactures zero-emission school buses, minibuses and urban trucks. The greatest challenges for this innovative company include determining the performance of the battery over the entire driving cycle, temperature control for the battery and vehicle as well as the effects of the vehicle design on its safety. With software solutions from Siemens Digital Industries Software, Lion was able to make precise estimates about the realistic range of the buses. Lion also uses the software to design battery models and to optimize thermal management. With the use of Siemens technology, the company will benefit in future from a considerably shorter time-to-market as well as significant time and cost savings for the development and analysis of new products. 
News | 21. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility showcases solutions to reduce traffic congestion

    Shared Autonomous Mobility solutions being piloted at CETRAN
    Mobility Operating Systems for Urban Centers
    Artificial Intelligence (AI) for traffic scenarios

Siemens Mobility is showcasing the latest in intelligent traffic systems technology at this year’s ITS World Congress taking place in Singapore. This includes mobility operating systems that are helping reduce gridlock on urban streets, which centralize and control traffic throughout urban areas. By connecting road users to road and infrastructure data captured via smart structures, drivers can optimize their routes and reduce their environmental impact. Through data analysis and prediction, traffic can be regulated in an efficient manner.
Press Release | 21. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens equips desalination plants in Saudi Arabia with process automation

    Eight desalination plants with process automation, drive technology, process instrumentation and communication technology
    Total capacity of 240,000 cubic meters per day
    Order volume is a double-digit million Euro figure

Siemens has received a follow-up order from the A3C consortium (Rawafid Industrial, Advanced Water Technology, SETE and Al Fatah) to equip eight seawater desalination plants in Saudi Arabia with electrical equipment. The new plants for seawater desalination using the principle of reverse osmosis are spread along the West coast of Saudi Arabia. The total capacity of the plants will be 240,000 cubic meters per day, with a power consumption of just three kilowatts per cubic meter of produced water, which is below the usual value and will provide significant energy savings. The scope of supply from Siemens includes hardware and software engineering, power distribution, PCS7 automation, medium and low voltage converters, Industrial Ethernet communication technology and process instrumentation for eight reverse osmosis plants, plus plant commissioning. The project will follow a tight schedule, with commissioning planned from autumn 2019.
Press Release | 21. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Sicharge UC system sets new standards for flexible eBus charging

    Portfolio serving entire power range from 50 to 600 kW
    Flexible combination with connection options as cable and pantographs
    For fast and secure charging at the depot and en route
    Cloud-based control and monitoring of charging processes

At Busworld 2019, Siemens is presenting its Sicharge UC family for charging electric buses, trucks and duty vehicles at the depot and en route. The Sicharge UC charging system covers the entire power range from 50 to 600 kilowatts (kW) and can be combined with several connection options such as charging plugs and offboard or onboard pantographs. To meet growing demands from the vehicle industry for higher voltages, the station can operate at up to 1,000 volts (V). Electric vehicles with various technologies and batteries can therefore be charged flexibly, either en route or at the depot. The charging processes can be monitored and controlled via a MindSphere application. MindSphere is the cloud-based, open IoT operating system from Siemens.
Press Release | 17. Oct 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Filling process 4.0 - in-operation maintenance
The CFT Group designs and builds production lines and turnkey systems primarily for the food and beverages industry. One of its customers, Menz & Gasser, which specializes in producing and packaging preserves and honey in portions for hotels, restaurants and catering, had CFT develop a rotary filling plant to a very high specification. The plant was to meet strict safety requirements and increase production capacities, while being exceptionally user-friendly. Key elements were extremely easy maintenance of the machines, ideally during operation. To achieve this, CFT turned to motion control solutions from the Siemens portfolio. This ensured that not only were the customer’s strict safety requirements satisfied but the cost for planning and commissioning each individual machine could be reduced by approximately 30 percent due to the Siemens technology.
News | 16. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens’ gearless drive technology powers high-capacity overland conveyor in Quellaveco

    Conveyor system will move 127,500 tons of primary crushed ore per day
    New Siemens’ gearless drive technology to increase reliability and efficiency additionally by up to 4 percent
    Maintenance requirements of the drive system significantly reduced

Powered by Siemens’ new gearless drive technology, thyssenkrupp’s high-capacity overland conveyor will access one of the world’s largest copper reserves in Quellaveco. The Quellaveco mine in Peru contains approximately 7.5 million tons of copper in ore reserves – enough to wire 80 million homes or equip 90 million electric vehicles.
Press Release | 16. Oct 2019 | Portfolio Companies
New energy company to be called Siemens Energy

    Business to be officially renamed as of April 2020
    Employees’ favorite selected 

At an internal management conference, Siemens today announced the name of the new energy company that it is creating. The business, which combines the worlds of conventional and renewable energy and is to become an independent company in the future, is to be called Siemens Energy. The new name will officially take effect once the energy business becomes a separate legal entity, which is expected to happen in April 2020. Siemens Energy is to be spun off as a publicly listed company by September 2020. Its offerings will address a significant portion of the value chain across the oil and gas, power generation, and power transmission segments, including the related service activities. On a pro-forma basis, Siemens Energy generates about €27 billion in revenue and has some 88,000 employees worldwide as well as an order backlog of €70 billion. Today, 20 percent of the world’s energy supply is already based on Siemens technology.
Press Release | 16. Oct 2019 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Siemens and VDL shaping future tech for electrical charging

    Latest advances in depot charging for eBuses and eTrucks to be tested in real-life conditions at the “VDL Charging Test Center” in The Netherlands
    Collaboration to demonstrate how vehicle technologies, energy storage and charging systems work together
    Vehicle-to-grid function enables bidirectional charging
    Capacity can be flexibly combined through special switching matrix

As the number of electric vehicles in the market continues to grow, so do the requirements for a robust charging infrastructure. Recognizing the need for electric buses and trucks to be charged flexibly and efficiently, Siemens and VDL Bus & Coach (VDL), a Dutch bus manufacturer, have joined efforts to come up with innovative solutions for depots. At the VDL Charging Test Center Siemens has installed the latest generation of fast charging stations, combined with a battery storage system. The location is VDL’s interoperability test and validation center in Valkenswaard in The Netherlands. A special switching matrix allows to flexibly combine the capacity of the charging stations. The setup is managed via an energy management application running on MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system from Siemens. VDL will use this technology to conduct interoperability and function tests on electric vehicles such as buses and trucks. Interoperability is when technologies of different manufacturers – on the vehicle as well as the charging infrastructure side – can interact and exchange information
Press Release | 15. Oct 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Energizing Bolivia
The three largest thermoelectric power plants in Bolivia are now upgraded to efficient combined cycle mode and have been officially inaugurated. Together the expanded power plants Termoeléctrica del Sur, de Warnes, and Entre Ríos are adding more than one gigawatt of electrical power to the Bolivian national grid. The expansion of the three power plants is an important milestone in the Bolivia 2025 vision, which aims to expand the country’s energy sector. By the year 2025 the country’s power generation capacity will be increased to 6,000 megawatts (MW), of which 3,000 MW will be designated for export.
Feature | 15. Oct 2019 | Gas and Power
Three expanded power plants deliver additional 1 GW to Bolivia

    Power plants Termoeléctrica del Sur, de Warnes, and Entre Ríos inaugurated in August and September
    Upgrade to combined cycle power plants increase the generation capacity by one gigawatt
    Expansion provides reliable energy supply and will allow export of value-added products

With the official inauguration of the Termoeléctrica de Warnes power plant in mid-September, all three power plants in Bolivia were inaugurated within a few weeks in August and September. Since the contract signing in 2016, Siemens has expanded Bolivia’s three largest thermal power plants to efficient combined cycle mode. The power plants are owned and operated by Ende Andina SAM. Together, all three add more than one gigawatt of electrical power to its current maximum capacity and to the Bolivian national grid.
Press Release | 15. Oct 2019 | Gas and Power
A new era awaits - How 5G will change industry
Designing production plants and intralogistics to be more flexible, autonomous, and efficient requires the right communications framework and comprehensive connectivity. The new 5G communication standard opens up important new perspectives. With this in mind, we would like to invite you to a Media Round Table with Eckard Eberle, CEO Siemens Process Automation, and Herbert Wegmann, Head of Siemens Industrial Communication and Identification, as part of the SPS exhibition on Wednesday November 27, 2019, at the Convention Center, Room Dublin. The event will start at 10.30 am. If you are interested, please register via mail before November 6, 2019.
News | 14. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility to set up Singapore’s Downtown Line signalling simulation center

    Digital twin of Downtown Line’s signalling system
    Supports troubleshooting, testing and training
    Intelligent infrastructure will minimize service disruptions

Siemens Mobility has been awarded a contract by the Singapore Land Transport Authority (LTA) to design and establish a simulation center for the Downtown Line’s (DTL) signalling system. The center will enable in-depth and faster technical analysis surrounding signalling-related incidents, enhance testing of new signalling features and system functionalities before deployment as well as increase capabilities for training LTA and the operator’s technical staff.  
Press Release | 14. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Research Project Rheticus

    Unique test facility comprising a bioreactor and electrolyzer under construction in Marl (Germany)
    High-value specialty chemicals produced from CO2 and water using electricity from renewable sources and bacteria
    Rheticus II will receive funding of around €3.5 million from Germany's Federal Ministry of Education and Research

Evonik and Siemens today launched their joint research project Rheticus II. The goal is to develop an efficient and powerful test plant that will use carbon dioxide (CO2) and water as well as electricity from renewable sources and bacteria to produce specialty chemicals. In the Rheticus I project, the two companies worked for two years to develop the technically feasible basis for artificial photosynthesis using a bioreactor and electrolyzers. Evonik and Siemens are now combining these two, previously separate, plants in a test facility at Evonik’s site in Marl (Germany). Rheticus II will run until 2021 and will receive funding of around €3.5 million from Germany’s Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF).
Press Release | 10. Oct 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens ensures safe electrical installation at the new Bauhaus Museum Dessau
The new Bauhaus Museum Dessau (Germany) opened its doors in September 2019, featuring technology from Siemens Smart Infrastructure to help keep visitors and its extensive collection safe. A comprehensive solution for safe electrical installations extends throughout the museum’s 5,500 square meter footprint, which includes over 1,000 exhibits from the Bauhaus Dessau Foundation’s collection. The latter comprises 49,000 objects, making it the second-largest Bauhaus collection worldwide. It contains numerous student works and teaching documentation, as well as drafts and prototypes from the workshops of the renowned art academy, which celebrates its 100 th anniversary this year.
Press Release | 09. Oct 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
For every size - filling plant for different package sizes
Burgener AG (Burgener) specializes in filling and closing technology for the pharmaceutical, chemical, and food industries. The company focuses on bulk material technology and package processing. When a new packaging line was to be installed for a customer, the company was faced with the challenge of having to fill packages from 100 grams to 1.5 tonnes on one line – with extremely high dosing accuracy. Burgener’s solution to the problem was a flexible plant with a modular filling line. The machine builder chose to use Siemens weighing electronics for the weighing process. This solution not only reduces the engineering and programming effort but is also an excellent fit with the modular plant design in which the weighing module can be easily changed over mechanically. Operation is simplified by integrating both weighing modules, including scales, into the same operating panel. The plant, which was originally a bespoke unit for the customer, is now part of Burgener’s standard range of solutions.
News | 09. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Materials Solutions Open New Innovation Center in U.S.
Siemens and Materials Solutions - a Siemens Business - officially opened a new, highly advanced innovation center this week in Orlando, Florida. The center is the only one of its kind in the U.S. to offer a unique pairing of design with manufacturing, implementing robotics, rapid prototyping, scanning, digital tools and on-site metal additive manufacturing. The Siemens innovation center will focus on rapid problem solving supporting the company’s energy businesses, while Materials Solutions will offer additive services to support the innovation center and external customers. 
Press Release | 09. Oct 2019 | Gas and Power
Connected and autonomous driving by road and rail will shape future mobility
Connected and self-driving vehicles are on the horizon. Autonomous taxis and minibuses could cover the last mile between homes and public mass transit and long-distance transport hubs, helping make private cars superfluous in cities and relieving congestion. In rail transport as well, fully automated systems and connectivity can help satisfy the rapidly growing demand for mobility. Making vehicles and infrastructure more intelligent can ensure better availability and make mobility safer. All this adds up to vastly improved urban environments. Siemens is working with municipalities, public transit authorities and research institutes to develop these transport concepts. 
Feature | 08. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Mobility and partners launch “Autonomous Tram in Depot” research project

    Project is being funded by BMVI
    Joint research on a fully automated tram depot with autonomous trams
    Consortium led by Siemens Mobility

Siemens Mobility, ViP Verkehrsbetrieb Potsdam GmbH (ViP), the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), the Institute for Climate Protection, Energy and Mobility (IKEM), Codewerk GmbH, and Mapillary are planning to undertake joint research on a fully automated tram depot. The project, called “AStriD” (Autonomous Tram in Depot), is being funded by the Federal Ministry for Transportation and Digital Infrastructure (BMVI) as part of its “Modernity Fund” (mFUND) research initiative.
Press Release | 07. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Think big - Largest pipe manufacturing facility in the world
Tenaris is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of steel pipes and suppliers of associated services to customers in the energy industry. Headquartered in Luxembourg, the company has created the largest and most comprehensively automated pipe mill in the world at Bay City, Texas, USA, relying on end-to-end control, automation, and safety solutions from Siemens to achieve this. Demands are high: The Tenaris plant in Texas is to be the safest and most efficient plant of its kind – with extremely high demands on quality. Tenaris was able to meet all the challenges using Siemens technology and reduced commissioning time by 20 percent and project engineering time by as much as 30 percent.
News | 07. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Keeping it clean - Efficient operation of hygiene sluices
Mohn is a market leader in the manufacture of hygiene sluices, washing systems, and stainless-steel operating equipment for the food processing industry. The company uses a Siemens logic module to control the ultra-modern Highline hygiene sluice. This provides precise control of time checks, access rights, rinsing times, and the addition of cleaning agents. Unlike previously used circuit boards, this new controller is extremely robust, flexible, and reliable which is vital for smooth operation. The precise control of the sluices and the actual duration of the programs they run provides Mohn’s customers with significant opportunities to reduce the consumption of both cleaning agents and energy.
News | 04. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Ponemon Institute study finds utility industry vulnerabilities

    Assesses the utility industry’s risk, readiness, and solutions to secure operational technology on the grid and recommends action to help utilities combat cyber threats
    Results show risk is worsening, with potential for severe financial, environmental and infrastructure damage
    54 percent of those surveyed in the utilities industry expect an attack on critical infrastructure in the next 12 months

Siemens and the Ponemon Institute today released a new report that assesses the global energy industry’s ability to meet the growing threat of cyber attacks to utilities and critical infrastructure connected to the electrical grid. The report – Caught in the Crosshairs: Are Utilities Keeping Up with the Industrial Cyber Threat? – details the utility industry’s vulnerability to cyber risk, readiness to address future attacks, and provides solutions to help industry executives and managers better secure critical infrastructure. The results of the report were released at a forum hosted by the Atlantic Council in Washington, D.C. focused on the growing national, economic, and energy security threat that cyber attacks pose to the utility industry.
Press Release | 04. Oct 2019 | Gas and Power
Data utilization made easy
Deerlijk, Belgium. Scott Automation nv (Scott) is a world-leading manufacturer of high-quality automation systems. The company’s core expertise is high-end palletizers which automatically compile packages on load carriers. In order to meet rapidly changing market requirements and customer expectations, Scott relies on Siemens technology in its latest development, the PAL 4.0 palletizer. The Siemens solution offers a high degree of safety, flexibility and transparency, allowing Scott not only to capture the data generated by the plant but also to evaluate it and make it available for machine optimization. The power supply system from Siemens is also the only one of its kind to be completely integrated into the digital world of automation, fulfilling the company’s aim of making its machines Industrie 4.0-ready.
News | 02. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens signs contract for turnkey construction of industrial power plant in Tatarstan

    Siemens will act as general contractor for turnkey construction of a 250 MW combined cycle power plant
    Two new long-term service agreements
    Total value approximately €290 million

Siemens Gas and Power and PJSC Kazanorgsintez, one of Russia's largest chemical companies, signed a contract for the turnkey construction of a 250 megawatt (MW) combined cycle power plant in Tatarstan. Commercial operation is planned to being in 2023. Siemens also signed two service contracts, one with Kazanorgsintez for the new plant and one for a 495 MW power plant with Siemens equipment owned by PJSC Nizhnekamskneftekhim. Both companies are part of the TAIF Group. The total value of all three contracts is approximately €290 million.
Press Release | 02. Oct 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens presents extended Digital Enterprise portfolio for more effective use of digital data

    This year’s trade fair slogan: "Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further!"
    Next level of digital transformation will be achieved through cutting-edge technologies such as Edge and cloud computing
    This leads to increased productivity, flexibility and efficiency
    Data can be evaluated and used more comprehensively and in greater depth. Data sovereignty always remains with the data owner

At “SPS– Smart Production Solutions” 2019, Siemens is presenting industry-specific applications and future technologies for the digital transformation in the manufacturing and process industries under the slogan “Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further!”. At the heart of the over 4000 square meter booth are products, solutions and services from the Digital Enterprise portfolio, which help customers to reduce their time-to-market and to increase productivity, flexibility and efficiency.
Press Release | 01. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Acciona extend alliance in plant construction
Madrid, Spain. Acciona Agua (Acciona) is a Spanish company that plans and builds plants for drinking water, desalination and wastewater treatment. For the optimization of numerous processes from development through to plant operation, Acciona relies on digital solutions and a dependable strategic partner – Siemens. Together the two companies develop and realize water projects across the globe and this success is set to continue with an extension of their existing cooperation agreement. In addition, Acciona is in a position to further develop its own digitalization strategy and integrate corresponding solutions into its portfolio. At the same time, Acciona has proven itself as a reliable partner for Siemens for the realization of large-scale projects. 
News | 01. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Real Estate expands into the market

    Corporate real estate management now also for external customers
    Renting, development and consulting in focus
    Intelligent real estate in close cooperation with other Siemens units

Siemens Real Estate (SRE) has been managing Siemens' real estate portfolio for more than 20 years and, as a versatile and future-oriented corporate real estate manager, has repeatedly adapted to the challenges of the market. Effective immediately, SRE will make the expertise it has acquired available to external clients for the first time. Companies that do not yet have their own professional real estate management will thus have access to SRE's knowledge and experience in the three product groups of consulting, renting and real estate and location development.
Press Release | 01. Oct 2019 | Real Estate
Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery to acquire Siemens’ stake in Primetals Technologies

    MHMM to become sole owner of Primetals Technologies 
    Closing expected by early calendar year 2020
    Financial details not disclosed

Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery (MHMM) – an MHI group company – and Siemens AG reached agreement on September 30, 2019, that MHMM will acquire Siemens’ 49 percent stake in Primetals Technologies. Closing of the transaction is subject to customary conditions and is expected by early 2020. Siemens will support the process to ensure a successful closing of the transaction. Following closing, MHMM will assume sole control of Primetals Technologies. Financial details of the transaction were not disclosed.
Press Release | 01. Oct 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens Mobility receives certificate from TÜV SÜD for the cybersecurity of its rolling stock

    TÜV SÜD issues certificate for proven IT security
    Protection against cyberattacks and response to legal requirements
    Tailored cybersecurity for every project

The Rolling Stock business unit at Siemens Mobility has been certified by Germany’s TÜV SÜD for meeting the international IT security standard IEC 62443. The certification proves that the train control and IT systems in the company’s high-speed trains, regional trains, metros, trams, locomotives, components, and rail solutions are adequately protected against cyberattacks.
Press Release | 01. Oct 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Web-based visualization system sets new standards for industrial operator control and monitoring

    Simatic WinCC Unified: Completely new developed visualization system based on native Web technologies
    Fully scalable in hardware and software - from machine-level applications to the distributed SCADA solution
    Open programming interfaces and option packages enable the implementation of industry-specific requirements
    Tried-and-tested engineering in the TIA Portal

At the "SPS – Smart Production Solutions" 2019, Siemens will present a completely new overall system for industrial operator control and monitoring. The web-based visualization system consists initially the Simatic WinCC Unified visualization software as well as the new generation of HMI panels, Simatic HMI Unified Comfort Panels. The new system provides the user with a solution for HMI and SCADA applications, and in the future also for Industrial Edge, Cloud and Augmented Reality scenarios.
Press Release | 01. Oct 2019 | Digital Industries
5G – the wireless network of the future
Mobile wireless network standards, starting with 1G, have been shaping our mobile communication for 40 years. While previous developments have focused on improved usability in the public sector, the new 5th generation standard (5G) is all about the benefits and potential applications in many different industries. Essentially, it deals with greater bandwidth, improved reliability, lower latencies and a greater number of connected devices. Siemens has therefore committed itself to this new communication standard from the outset and is supporting standardization and industrial implementation.
News | 30. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
For a long (car) life
In recent years, Nissan has enjoyed rising sales figures, establishing itself as a leading car maker. To strengthen the brand and optimize the quality of its vehicles even further, Nissan is aiming to develop cars with the longest possible service life and high reliability. To achieve this, the company opted for solutions from the Siemens PLM Software Simcenter portfolio for vehicle testing. Simcenter, the system simulation software suite with its 3D CAE (Computer-Aided Engineering) and tests, has allowed Nissan to set up an efficient, test-based process for extending the durability of its vehicles. In addition to this, the Siemens solutions help the company to collect precise production and component data which is also used to optimize the vehicles.
News | 27. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Grundfos sign digital partnership to tackle global water challenges and save energy

    Partnership based on complementary portfolios and competences will support our customers when implementing intelligent solutions
    Cooperation to tackle global water challenges: increase energy efficiency and reduce water consumption
    Focused on three main areas: water and wastewater applications, industrial automation and building technology

Siemens and Grundfos have today signed a digital partnership framework for strategic cooperation between the two companies. The new partnership focuses on the complementary products and solutions provided by both parties in three main areas: water and wastewater applications, industrial automation and building technology.
Press Release | 26. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to revamp luggage screening at Spain's five busiest airports

    Automatic handling of up to 1800 pieces of luggage per hour
    Improved security and more comfort for travelers and airport staff
    Modernization in compliance with tightened international security rules for luggage inspection
    Siemens also providing management systems, software and communications for remote operation
    Order volume of 164 million euros

Siemens will modernize the existing security systems for luggage control at Spain's five busiest airports. The contract for the luggage inspection systems at the airports of Madrid, Barcelona, Malaga, Palma de Mallorca and Gran Canaria has a volume of around 164 million euros. The customer is AENA (Aeropuertos Españoles y Navegación Aérea), the Spanish semi-governmental airport operator. With 264 million passengers and more than one million tons of freight in 2018, AENA is one of the world's largest airport operators. The new luggage inspection systems from Siemens will help to significantly increase traveler safety. At the same time, passengers can be handled more quickly and travel more comfortably.
Press Release | 25. Sep 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Smart gravel plant
Kibag AG is a leading player in the building material and construction sector and operates multiple gravel and cement plants, building companies, and recycling and waste-disposal companies. At the gravel and cement plant in Birr, the company excavates around 230,000 tonnes of gravel every year. In order to improve efficiency and at the same time make better use of resources and personnel, Kibag relies on digitalization. The company also modernized the whole plant in Birr in 2018 using components from the Siemens portfolio. As a result, machines, conveyors, breakers, and loading stations can now be controlled from a tablet and plant disruptions can be easily and quickly resolved. This makes the Birr production facility one of the most up-to-date and efficient of its kind.
News | 25. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to build industrial power plant at the Marl Chemical Park in Germany

    Turnkey construction of two 90 MW power plant units
    Production of process steam and district heat
    Annual savings of up to 1 million metric tons of CO2

Siemens will build a highly efficient combined cycle power plant as a turnkey project at the Marl Chemical Park in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. The order was placed by the specialty chemical group Evonik Industries. The new industrial power plant will consist of two units, each with an electrical capacity of 90 megawatts, and produce both electricity and process steam for the chemical park. The site’s integrated steam network will also supply district heat for about 2,000 homes in the future. The plant’s fuel efficiency will thus exceed 90 percent. With this combined cycle power plant, Evonik will replace its last coal-fired plant at the Marl Chemical Park. Because the plant will produce environmentally friendly electricity, process steam, and district heat from natural gas, the company will be able to cut CO2 emissions by one million metric tons per year. The plant thus makes an important contribution to decarbonization. Construction is scheduled to begin later in 2019, and the power plant is expected to go into operation in 2022. Siemens Financial Services (SFS), Siemens’ financing arm, developed a leasing financing solution specifically for Evonik in collaboration with Siemens Gas and Power. Together with the KfW IPEX Bank and LBBW, SFS will handle refinancing of the leasing agreement. The project volume is in the lower triple-digit million euro range.
Press Release | 25. Sep 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens wins Large Order Intake in China
Siemens Large Drives Applications (LDA) has won a contract from Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (Baosteel), China, to equip a new steel production complex with medium voltage drive systems. The order for the new hot strip mill in the production plant includes more than 20 Siemens Sinamics SM150 medium voltage frequency converters. This will increase capacity and ensure low-maintenance operation. Commissioning of the drives for the new hot strip mill is scheduled for late 2020/early 2021.
News | 24. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to build digital substation with grid IoT applications for Glitre Energi Nett

    Retrofit of substation automation and protection system in Norway including Internet of Things (IoT) connectivity
    Consolidation, visualization and analysis of grid data in MindSphere cloud
    Option to develop additional use cases during project execution
    Digitalization of grid assets optimizes overall efficiency

Together with the Norwegian distribution system operator Glitre Energi Nett, Siemens will build a digital substation to pilot Internet of things (IoT) analytics and applications for power grids. IoT-ready Siprotec protection and control and Sicam automation devices will be connected via OPC UA PubSub, an open standard communication protocol, to MindSphere – the Siemens cloud-based open operating system for IoT. The Siprotec dashboard cloud application will make previously inaccessible data fully available and help to process grid data for the first time in the cloud with zero engineering effort.
Press Release | 23. Sep 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
It just works
The Canadian group of companies J. McCoy Equipment and Oshawa Bearing have together designed and built a concrete plant for one of the largest manufacturers of concrete products in North America. J. McCoy builds concrete batching and ready-mixed concrete plants and Oshawa Bearing is a system integrator. Both companies rely on solutions for Siemens for the automation, particularly the weighing technology. The Siemens technology can be easily integrated into the existing infrastructure. A microwave sensor analyzes the moisture content of the materials and sends this information to the weighing electronics. This adjusts the weighing process, taking the relative water content into consideration, so that the exact formulation is maintained at the end of the process. Simple project engineering, high measuring accuracy, and reduced processing times due to the lack of mechanical calibration processes complete the automation solution. In addition to this, the system displays the entire weighing process digitally which provides a high degree of transparency and traceability, simplifies quality assurance, and significantly increases plant efficiency. The customer also benefits from easy integration of modules from a range of suppliers within a single software tool.
News | 23. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Statement by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG
By Jim Hagemann Snabe “The speculations published in Der Spiegel magazine are false. It was Mr. Kaeser himself who proposed to the Supervisory Board that a Deputy CEO be appointed in order to accelerate orderly succession planning. In response to this proposal, the Supervisory Board approved the following resolution: ‘The Supervisory Board will decide on the successor to Joe Kaeser and on the timing of the succession in the summer of 2020.’ No questions about appointments to the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG were discussed.”
News | 21. Sep 2019 | Siemens AG
Future-proof welding
Dalex Schweißmaschinen GmbH & Co. KG specializes in resistance welding and is one of the leading manufacturers in the world in this field. The company’s core business is building special plants for the automotive and electronics industries, amongst others, as well as for aerospace. In this business, Dalex relies on Siemens control technology which ensures the manufacturer’s plants meet the high safety requirements specified by the Machine Directive. In addition to this, the Siemens solutions simplify control cabinet design, are easy to parameterize, and thus reduce commissioning times.
News | 20. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens partners with TIES, a Chinese R&D Center to develop new technologies for electric vehicle batteries

    Advanced Battery Technology Innovation Center (ABTIC) is initiated jointly by Tianmu Lake Institute of Advanced Energy Storage and Siemens to develop advanced battery technologies and help bring them to volume production
    ABTIC aims to develop and provide digital solutions for production chains and innovation chains on next generation batteries

Announced today, Siemens Digital Industries Software has partnered with Tianmu Lake Institute of Advanced Energy Storage Technologies (TIES), a major Chinese energy storage research and development center, to build an Advanced Battery Technology Innovation Center. The Innovation Center, to be located at the 500 million-yuan, 51,000 square meter facility in Liyang, China, will be dedicated to transforming and upgrading the advanced battery industry, including nurturing advanced battery technology research and development, and the development and introduction of high-end talents in this growing area.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Universal connection
Siemens is extending its Simatic Top connect portfolio for system cabling with the new universal connecting cable. Simatic Top connect is now also ideal for flexible and simple wiring for Simatic Basic controllers, for the Simatic ET 200SP IO system and for the Logo! logic module. With the selection of a corresponding connecting module, a wide range of connection concepts can be implemented. 
News | 19. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
BeAM and Siemens intensifying collaboration in industrial 3D printing for Directed Energy Deposition

    Successful collaboration in both software and hardware for additive manufacturing further extended
    New CNC Sinumerik One to be integrated successively into the entire machine fleet

BeAM, a leading machine manufacturer in the field of DED (Directed Energy Deposition) technology for additive manufacturing, and the global technology company Siemens announced at EMO 2019 their plans to further intensify their already successful collaboration. This is based on the successful piloting of Sinumerik One, the new CNC generation from Siemens. As a "digital native", the new controller features software for the creation of digital twins, which supports the seamless integration of hardware and software. BeAM is the first machine builder to equip an additive manufacturing machine - Modulo 250 - with a Sinumerik One. At EMO 2019, the world's first AM machine equipped with a Sinumerik One will be presented to the public at the Siemens booth in Hall 9, Booth H50. Visitors to EMO can see how the program simulation is operated on the machine using the Digital Twin of Production in the NX Virtual Machine software. „We are very excited to close the loop in the additive digital chain by bridging virtual simulation and actual deposition on our new Modulo 250 thanks to the integration of the new Sinumerik One. It opens up new possibilities for our industrial customers willing to integrate further DED in their value chain and optimize its usage “, explains BeAM’s CEO Vincent Gillet.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens technologies at the Munich Oktoberfest
Let the good times roll: Starting September 21, about six million people from all around the world will be enjoying themselves at the Oktoberfest in Munich for two weeks. Traditionally, Siemens supplies drives and control systems as well as energy distribution for the festival's rides. Automation solutions from Siemens also control special beer pipelines – the only ones of its kind worldwide –that supply the Hacker, Winzerer Faehndl and Braeurosl festival tents with their tasty Oktoberfest brews. Because many breweries use Siemens technologies within their brewing process, Siemens doesn't only ensure fresh beer at the Oktoberfest.
Feature | 18. Sep 2019 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries
Supervisory Board makes personnel decisions to set course for next-generation Siemens

    Michael Sen will be proposed as CEO of the future publicly listed company in the energy and electricity sector. He has also been named Co-CEO of Siemens’ Gas and Power Operating Company
    Lisa Davis to support – as Co-CEO of the Gas and Power Operating Company – the transition to the new energy company until the ordinary Annual Shareholder’s Meeting in February 2020. Her contract will expire as scheduled
    Roland Busch appointed Deputy CEO of Siemens AG 
    Supervisory Board decision on successor to Joe Kaeser and on date of succession to be made in summer of 2020

At its regular meeting today, the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG made the first personnel decisions required to set the course for the company’s future. Managing Board member Michael Sen – whose current duties include responsibility for the company’s equity investment in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) – will be proposed as CEO of the new company in the energy and electricity sector. Plans call for publicly listing the business in September 2020. Michael Sen has also been appointed Co-CEO with Lisa Davis of Siemens’ Gas and Power (GP) Operating Company, effective October 1, 2019. Lisa Davis previously informed the Supervisory Board that, for personal reasons, she did not wish to further extend her present contract. Until the ordinary Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in 2020, she will ensure an orderly handover of her leadership responsibilities to Michael Sen. Lisa Davis will subsequently support the President and CEO of Siemens AG in an advisory capacity until her contract expires.
Press Release | 18. Sep 2019 | Siemens AG
Retrofit for a secure future
The Brimi Milchhof Brixen milk processing plant (Brimi) is among Italy’s three top mozzarella manufacturers, producing up to 2,550 kilograms of popular Brimi mozzarella every hour. In a bid to make its operations fit for the future, Brimi has recently invested in a comprehensive retrofit designed to enable efficient process analysis, optimization, traceability and, if required, also expansion. At the heart of the new solution is a process control system from Siemens. Successfully installed on the fly, the integrated control technology enables visualization of the entire production with convenient user interfaces, and simplifies troubleshooting.
News | 18. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Safe tunnel operation
HBI Haerter Beratende Ingenieure (HBI) is a leading global company of consulting engineers for tunnel ventilation. In order to ensure optimal air circulation and to help people reach emergency exits should the tunnel fill with smoke, HBI relies on modern solutions for tunnel design. An important component of these solutions is the Star-CCM+ simulation tool from the Simcenter portfolio of Siemens PLM Software. HBI uses this tool to create realistic simulations of the tunnel, which even support 3D tours of the construction using VR glasses. Flow fields, temperature development and smoke concentration can be mapped easily in the software in addition to the speed at which the air moves due to the traffic flow. Data exchange with Teamcenter is also supported without problems.
News | 16. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens extends Sinumerik Edge to include more applications, bringing artificial intelligence to machine tools

    New Edge applications for workpiece and process quality, machine availability and process optimization
    Analyze MyWorkpiece /Vision and Optimize MyMachining /Magazine based on artificial intelligence
    Manage MySinumerik Edge for the central control and condition monitoring of Edge devices

Siemens has extended its Industrial Edge offerings for the machine-oriented Sinumerik Edge to include more new applications. With the new software, the company is helping machine tool users to improve workpiece and process quality, increase machine availability, and further optimize machine processes. With Edge Computing, large volumes of data can be processed locally on the machine tool. This also reduces storage and transmission costs for users, as large data volumes can be preprocessed and only the relevant data then transferred to a cloud or IT infrastructure.
Press Release | 16. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens plans to acquire Process Systems Enterprise

    Global cutting-edge software provider for advanced process modelling
    Siemens extends its integrated digitalization portfolio for the process industry 
    gPROMS platform is technology leader for digital R&D, design and operations
    Seamless use of process models throughout the entire process lifecycle

Siemens is planning to acquire Process Systems Enterprise (PSE), a technology- leading global supplier of software and services for advanced process modelling. Advanced models are used within digital R&D, design and operations in the process industries to help make fast, safe and more efficient decisions through rapid and effective exploration of the decision space. PSE offers model-based solutions that span the entire process lifecycle via a unified and integrated set of tools. This provides a wide range of state-of-the-art model-based solutions that strongly complement the Siemens portfolio in the process industry sector and will also further strengthen Siemens' position as a leading provider in comprehensive plant management over the entire lifecycle.
Press Release | 16. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens at the EMO Hanover 2019
September 16 2019, the day EMO opened its doors in Hanover to welcome trade visitors from all over the world. EMO is regarded as the world's leading trade fair for metal processing with exhibitors ranging from metal processing technology, machine tools, precision tools and automation components to customer-oriented systems.This year, Siemens presented its customers exciting innovations and new developments in technology and digitalization of machine tools under the banner of "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing - Thinking Further!". Particular highlights were the new CNC generation – Sinumerik One – and the machine-oriented platform Sinumerik Edge. In the run-up to this event, Siemens invited journalists to the international Siemens Press Conference in Erlangen. 
Hanover | 15. Sep 2019 - 20. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries Save the date
Siemens and Orascom Construction to rebuild 1.6 GW power plant in Iraq

    Facilities in Baiji will power Iraq’s biggest refinery and deliver electricity to thousands of homes in liberated areas
    Siemens equipment includes E-class gas turbines, substations and generators
    Project is start of Phase 2 of Siemens’ Roadmap for Iraq and will be completed 28 months after financial closing by Iraq’s government

Siemens and Orascom Construction signed an agreement with Iraq’s Ministry of Electricity to rebuild Baiji 1 and Baiji 2 power plants in northern Iraq. The plants will have a combined generation capacity of 1.6 gigawatts (GW) when completed and are a major step in Siemens’ roadmap for rebuilding Iraq's power sector that has already added more than 700 megawatts to Iraq’s grid.
Press Release | 14. Sep 2019 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Quick and flexible assembly
Siemens is extending its FastConnect cabling technology offer to include a new X-coded IE FC M12 Plug Pro connector. The new plug-in connector has a robust metal housing and is suitable for use in harsh industrial environments due to its IP65/67 protection class (protection against the ingress of liquids and dust). This plug-in connector allows eight-core Ethernet cables to be quickly and easily assembled directly on site, to the required length. The IE FC M12 Plug Pro is stripped and assembled using the IE FC stripping tool, which is also used for pre-assembled cables, and significantly simplifies handling by eliminating the need for new assembly methods.
News | 13. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Remote access and online diagnostics secure availability
As part of its service agreements for machine tool users, Siemens is now offering two new, digitally supported service optionsfor Sinumerik controls. Upon a customer’s request, Sinumerik Remote Service allows a remote connection to be made to selected machine tools and faults to be identified and, in an ideal scenario, remedied. Extended status data from the control and drive systems can also be captured and intelligently analyzed using the “Sinumerik Service Assistance” agreement option. The two new service options thus reduceunscheduled downtimes and service costs whilst ensuring high safety standards through the use of modern remote access technology.
News | 12. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Cutting-edge technologies and cooperation as the key to digital transformation of the midmarket sector

    Reaching the next level of digital transformation involves cutting-edge technologies such as Edge and cloud computing as well as artificial intelligence
    These technologies can be used to analyze data more comprehensively and in more depth than was previously the case. The owner of this data retains control over it at all times.
    Targeted patent strategies help the midmarket sector protect its innovations in the area of Industry 4.0 and tap new sales opportunities.

Cutting-edge technologies and the protection of intellectual property are a vital lever for advancing competitiveness and for opening up new business opportunities for medium-sized companies in the process and manufacturing industries. This was the message given by Klaus Helmrich, Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and CEO Siemens Digital Industries, as he addressed the "Forum of German SME" ("Forum Deutscher Mittelstand") in Stuttgart, southern Germany. The Forum was attended by 500 representatives from numerous well-known German companies in mechanical and plant engineering in order to debate digital strategies and future technologies for small and medium-sized companies. "The midmarket sector has always been characterized by its innovative force. We now need to protect these innovations with new approaches to patenting software and applications, for example," Klaus Helmrich explained.
Press Release | 12. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Modern water extraction
The water desalination experts Rawafid Industrial and Advanced Water Technology (AWT) have built an ultra-modern plant for extracting drinking water on the coast of the Arabian Gulf in response to demand for a reliable supply of drinking water for a growing population. Sea water is processed here in a two-stage, solar-powered reverse osmosis process to produce fresh water. Some of the key challenges involved in the project included the tight schedule and the capacity of the plant – up to 90,000 cubic meters of water can be processed here every day. Rawafid Industrial relies on Siemens solutions for the electrical equipment, automation with integrated drive technology, communication, and instrumentation. Efficient use of solar energy significantly reduces the carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions from the plant compared to plants using electricity from non-renewable sources. In addition to this, the Siemens technology ensures a plant availability of approximately 98 percent.
News | 11. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
New digital services increase productivity and availability of machine tools

    Digital Transformation Consulting CNC for the development of an individual digitalization strategy
    Connection between the production network and higher-level networks even for third-party controllers through Brownfield Connectivity Services

At EMO 2019 in Hanover, Siemens is presenting the latest services for the digitalization of machine tools. With its "Digital Transformation Awareness & Consulting CNC", Siemens offers a consulting service for the development of an individual digitalization strategy. In addition to workshops for the identification of action areas and development of the digitalization strategy, target group-specific training sessions provide more in-depth knowledge and promote wider acceptance of the digital transformation. With Brownfield Connectivity Services, Siemens is also offering additional services: using a gateway, users can connect both Sinumerik CNCs and controllers and automation solutions from third-party providers to higher-level networks. Digital Transformation Awareness & Consulting CNC and Brownfield Connectivity Services are part of Digital Motion Control Services, which enable Siemens to support its customers on the path toward digitalization.
Press Release | 10. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Simcenter Madymo improves Active Human model for enhanced safety simulation
Siemens Digital Industries Software announces the availability of the latest version of Simcenter Madymosoftwarewith significant improvements for speed and accuracy. Used for occupant safety modeling, Simcenter Madymo can simulate the impact of a car crash on the human body using Simcenter Active Humansoftware. The latest version offers solver run times reduced by 28 percent as compared to past versions. A typical crash analysis in Simcenter Madymo may take up to 15-20 minutes, whilst the same in a finite element (FE) code could take several hours. When using Simcenter Active Human, the simulation time of an event of three seconds will take approximately two hours to complete, when in the past it might have taken up to four hours.
News | 10. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Odessa Texas Support Center

    High-speed reciprocating compressor (HSRC) and mobile power support center opened in Odessa, Texas to serve expanding customer base in Permian Basin
    New support center provides operators with expedited access to parts while increasing the capabilities of Siemens Oil & Gas in a key region 

Feature | 10. Sep 2019 | Gas and Power
Globally competitive – Machine manufacturer relies on Siemens motion control system for new development on presses
Sankyo Seisakusho Co. (Sankyo) is a Japanese provider of automation technology. The company relies on Siemens motion control solutions when developing new servo-driven belt feeders and indexers for presses. Sankyo’s new developments are primarily used in the production of engines for plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles. The Siemens technology allows Sankyo to combine two demanding technical systems, a feeder and an indexer while increasing the accuracy, efficiency and speed of its machines. The future-proof automation improves productivity and allows the technology company to maintain its position in the global market and to remain competitive.
News | 09. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens at World Energy Congress 2019
At this year's World Energy Congress (WEC) Siemens Gas and Power will give deep insights into how new energy trends are driving the future of energy and how the company is helping its customers navigate the demands of today’s industries and societies.
| 09. Sep 2019 - 12. Sep 2019 | Gas and Power Save the date
Sinumerik One – Digital Native CNC comes with new technology functions and comprehensive service offering

    Sinumerik One is setting new standards in terms of productivity thanks to a new hardware platform and innovative technology functions
    Digital service offering supports machine users and machine manufacturers with the creation of a digital twin and with virtual commissioning
    Sinumerik One on show at EMO with more than 20 pilot customers

With the latest CNC generation, Sinumerik One, Siemens is presenting the essential component for the digital transformation of machine tools at EMO 2019. As a "digital native", the controller features versatile software for the creation of corresponding digital twins. Sinumerik One is setting new benchmarks in terms of productivity with its new hardware platform. A wide range of innovative technology functions help to improve processing speed, contour accuracy and processing quality.
Press Release | 09. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Stromnetz Hamburg launch pilot project for digital secondary distribution network

    Smart grid solution to support growing demand for residential electric vehicle charging infrastructure
    Digitalization of low-voltage network enables electromobility growth
    Locally monitored and controlled home charging stations to relieve network
    Decentralized intelligence prevents network overload
    Pilot project in Hamburg aims to develop scalable, technical solutions

Growth in electromobility, along with the required charging infrastructure, presents distribution networks with enormous challenges. To address this, Siemens and Stromnetz Hamburg GmbH have started collaborating on a three-year pilot project aimed at avoiding extensive expansion of the low-voltage networks and preventing overload situations in secondary distribution networks. Applying a concept for resilient information and communication technology to digitalize secondary distribution networks, the project's goal is to facilitate stable and reliable operation of the low-voltage networks to ensure secure power supply as demand for electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure grows.
Press Release | 09. Sep 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Strong demand for Siemens bonds despite negative yields

    Siemens issues bonds with a total value of €3.5 billion and maturities of two, five, ten and fifteen years
    Investor demand more than four times higher than issue volume
    Siemens secures most favorable financing conditions to date

Siemens has issued bonds with a total value of €3.5 billion. The transaction closed yesterday. The proceeds of the issuance will be used for general corporate purposes. Investor demand was very high. At around €15 billion, demand was more than four times the issue volume. More than 70 percent of the investors are from Germany, France or the UK.
Press Release | 06. Sep 2019 | Siemens AG
Photorealistic rendering
Cadalog Inc. develops and sells CAD (Computer-aided Design) software for the global market, with a particular focus on Asia. In addition to complete proprietary software solutions, Cadalog also offers plugins, for example for SketchUp architecture software. To ensure high-quality visualization and renderings that are as photorealistic as possible, Cadalog is using Iray+ from Lightworks in its new ProWalker plugin. Siemens integrated the rendering software from its Lightworks subsidiary into its NX portfolio. Using this solution, Cadalog has achieved considerable improvements in the visualization quality of light, shadows and materials. Iray+ can also be integrated seamlessly into existing Cadalog software packages, which ensures easy operation for Cadalog customers. 
News | 05. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
New Siemens solution optimizes the performance of capital assets in project delivery and operations

    Siemens' Teamcenter software weaves a digital thread of data through an enterprise's portfolio of plants and related projects, from capital project delivery into operations, to drive new efficiencies in design, construction, and operations as well as decrease project delivery costs and timeframes
    Bentley Systems Inc., whose iTwin™ cloud services enable project digital twins and asset performance digital twins for infrastructure engineering, provides comprehensive and scalable data exchange and change synchronization
    Solution benefits the discrete and process industries, including Energy, Consumer Goods, Automotive and Transportation industries

Siemens Digital Industries Software and Bentley Systems announce today the immediate availability of a new Capital Asset Lifecycle Management (CALM) solution for Teamcenter® software. This new solution, developed collaboratively by both companies, was created to address the challenges typically faced across an enterprise's greenfield and brownfield capital projects, including rampant delays and cost overruns, which can be caused by lack of system interoperability and a failure to appropriately leverage digitalization. These challenges can adversely affect the efficiency of the operational plant or system. To address these challenges and realize greater efficiency throughout the lifecycle of capital assets, Teamcenter CALM solutions help companies make the transition to digitalization for the planning, design, procurement, construction, and operation of capital assets. The Teamcenter CALM solution can consolidate asset data and weave a digital thread from project delivery into operations, enabling the creation of a closed-loop digital twin— the virtual representation of a physical asset—to visualize and simulate project designs, construction execution, and operational performance.
Press Release | 05. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
VinFast deploys Siemens' full portfolio to deliver cars ahead of schedule

    VinFast completed its automotive production within only 21 months
    Siemens' Digital Enterprise portfolio ensures VinFast's high manufacturing efficiency and product quality
    VinFast uses Xcelerator portfolio of software and Totally Integrated Automation (TIA)

VinFast, Vietnam's first volume car manufacturer, has successfully produced its first cars ahead of schedule using Siemens' portfolio of integrated software and hardware. By deploying its portfolio, Siemens helped VinFast achieve its automotive production timeline for building the factory, car design and start of the production in only 21 months, well ahead of an already ambitious schedule. This is half of the average time to build such a manufacturing plant. The VinFast plant in Hai Phong went live in June 2019 and has a total design capacity of 250,000 cars per year. The first vehicles have been E-Scooters, compact cars, sedans, and SUVs. These will be followed by battery electric passenger cars as well as electric buses.
Press Release | 05. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens floating power plants will support New York’s renewable energy strategy

    Siemens to replace four floating power generation barges in the Upper Bay of New York City
    SeaFloat turnkey solution will provide reliable peaking power for New York City's renewable ambitions 
    Boost power generating efficiency by nearly 50 percent 
    20-year long-term service agreement signed

Astoria Generating Company and Siemens signed a contract for the turnkey construction of two SeaFloat power barges to be equipped with eight Siemens SGT-A65 gas turbines. The barges will replace four existing power barges located at Gowanus Generating Station in the Upper Bay of Brooklyn, New York City, resulting in cleaner, more efficient energy production. Siemens will preinstall the high-efficiency power generating facilities on two newly constructed floating barges with a generation capacity of about 300 megawatts (MW) each. Retrofitting the station with SGT-A65 gas turbines and generators will improve the plants' power generating efficiency by nearly 50 percent while significantly reducing potential emissions of pollutants like carbon dioxide and monoxide – all while using the existing gas infrastructure. 
Press Release | 05. Sep 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens Speeds Digital Future of Industry with Xcelerator

    Xcelerator unites core Siemens Digital Industries software portfolio with Mendix multi-experience application development platform to power digital transformation and make it possible for anybody to easily build, integrate and extend existing data and systems
    Enables rapid innovation and validation of products during design, manufacturing and use through creation of an accurate digital twin
    To reflect its broad portfolio of industry leading industrial software, Siemens PLM Software becomes Siemens Digital Industries Software

Siemens today announced Xcelerator – an integrated portfolio of software, services and application development platform that can be personalized and adapted to fit customer and industry-specific needs to help companies of all sizes become digital enterprises. Xcelerator combines the full portfolio of Siemens' software for design, engineering and manufacturing with an expanded Mendix low-code, multi-experience application development platform. The Mendix platform now includes cloud and app services for digital engineering and Internet of Things (IoT) powered by MindSphere® the cloud-based, open IoT operating system from Siemens, in addition to Mendix's market-leading unified low-code and no-code development environments. Unique to Xcelerator, this platform drives digital transformation by enabling anyone in the ecosystem, including citizen developers and engineers to easily build, integrate and extend their existing data and systems. The company also announced that Siemens PLM Software has become Siemens Digital Industries Software, a change intended to reflect the growth in the company's ecosystem and portfolio of solutions, applications, tools and services that are driving digital transformation at organizations across the globe.
Press Release | 05. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens MindSphere Rocket Club
From 9 to 12 September, Siemens invites promising start-ups to the Rocket Club Bootcamp to the Siemens AI Lab, a coworking space, in Munich. For startups, this means faster, free access to MindSphere, expert guidance from MindSphere specialists, collaborative development of the workshop, and the ability to integrate the specific customer solution into MindSphere. Behind the initiative is the MindSphere Rocket Club.
News | 04. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to build new combined cycle power plant in France

    Turnkey construction and operation and maintenance for 20 years
    Order worth about €450 million
    40 percent equity participation during project development phase

Siemens will build a new combined cycle power plant as a turnkey project in Landivisiau in western France. The company will also operate and maintain the plant for a period of 20 years. With an installed capacity of 446 megawatts, the power plant will help to reliably cover Brittany's growing demand for electricity. The order volume is approximately €450 million. Siemens Financial Services (SFS), the financing arm of Siemens, held an equity stake in the project, ensuring stability during the entire development phase.
Press Release | 04. Sep 2019 | Gas and Power
And it made a “click”
Gardena is one of Europe’s leading manufacturers of high-quality garden equipment and exports its products to over 80 countries. The company, which is part of the Husqvarna Group, attaches enormous value to sustainability and efficient use of resources. In order to accurately monitor which production cell is using how much energy and when, Gardena relies on energy management solutions from Siemens. This allows the equipment manufacturer to optimize energy use, have a clear picture of consumption levels, and to reduce production costs. Gardena can therefore achieve the savings targets set within the group regarding the resource planning and reduce energy consumption annually by approximately three percent by capturing all production data.
News | 03. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Digital junction box - increased transparency in monitoring and diagnostics

    Individual monitoring of the load cells of the scale
    Seamless communication through connection to Simatic
    Maximum accuracy through connection to Siwarex WP weighing electronics

With Siwarex DB, Siemens is launching a digital junction box for weighing applications with robust field housing in IP66 protection on the market. It can be integrated easily into Simatic environments. The Siwarex DB extends the Siemens weighing technology portfolio and through its seamless networking ensures that individual analog load cells can now be acquired and evaluated more comprehensively than ever before. They can be used both for the targeted monitoring of weighing processes and for extended diagnostics. Any error messages are displayed centrally on the Simatic controller and the HMI.
Press Release | 03. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens hosting platform for solving complex cybersecurity challenges

    Optimized for operating temperature of -40 to +75 degrees Celsius
    Addressing new and growing cybersecurity challenges
    New cybersecurity partners make their security applications available to Siemens customers

Siemens has expanded the Ruggedcom Multi-Service Platform product family of utility-grade communication devices by introducing a new, more powerful version of the Ruggedcom APE (Application Processing Engine) – an industrial application hosting platform designed for running third party software applications in harsh, mission-critical environments.
Press Release | 02. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
First day of training for the digital work world

    Around 2,100 apprentices and university students in work-study programs at 20 Siemens locations are starting their professional lives 
    International training program includes 31 participants from 14 countries 
    Training program focuses on digital transformation process 
    Training as an important foundation for lifelong learning

Around 2,100 young people in Germany alone are beginning their occupational training with Siemens today. At 20 locations in Germany, Siemens will be training about 1,500 people for its own needs as well as another 600 participants for external partner companies. In Berlin, 31 young people from 14 countries are taking part in the International Tech Apprenticeship@Siemens (ITA@S) program, including apprentices from Nigeria, Pakistan and South Africa. The ITA@S apprentices have been sent to Berlin by their local Siemens Regional Companies for training as electronics technicians for industrial engineering or as mechatronics technicians. In total, 111 young people from outside Germany are completing training as part of the ITA@S program.
Press Release | 02. Sep 2019 | Siemens AG
Tackling cancer
Varian Medical Systems Imaging Laboratory GmbH (Varian) leads the way in the development of radiation equipment typically used in treating cancer. Tumors such as those found in lung cancer which move with the patient’s breathing represent a challenge during treatment. To target these tumors and treat them with the lowest possible dose of radiation for the surrounding tissue, Varian has developed the TrueBeam radiotherapy system. The device applies the radiation only when the tumor is located at a predefined position. Treatment is easier if the patient breathes evenly during the procedure. To make sure this happens, the patient is given a Visual Coaching Device (VCD) in the form of a tablet where the patient can see her own breathing in real time and control it more easily. Varian uses particularly robust and reliable solutions from the Siemens Scalance network portfolio to facilitate communication between the TrueBeam device and the VCD.
News | 01. Sep 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility enters new markets for Smartron

    Smartron locomotive can now also be ordered for Bulgaria and Romania
    First orders from E-P Rail and PIMK 
    Authorization already received for first locomotive in Bulgaria

Siemens Mobility is now also offering its Smartron locomotive in Bulgaria and Romania. The locomotive is available exclusively in a standard preconfigured version, which ensures cost-efficient operation and high reliability for customers. E-P Rail has already ordered four Smartron locomotives for Romania, and PIMK in Bulgaria a total of three. Authorization for placing on the market for the first Smartron in Bulgaria has already been received.
Press Release | 30. Aug 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Clean heating and cooling
ThermoLift has developed the ThermoLift system at its headquarters in the Advanced Energy Center at the State University of New York, (SUNY). This device, which is driven by natural gas, combines air conditioning system and heat pump in a single unit. ThermoLift chose Siemens PLM Software solutions for the development and automated design optimization processes, as well as for simulating the design process. A very high number of components can be included in the simulation and multi-disciplinary simulations can be achieved in a single user interface by using Simcenter Star CCM +. The optimum design of the ThermoLift solution allows the energy costs for the heating, cooling and hot water systems in a building to be reduced by 30 to 50 percent compared to conventional systems.
News | 29. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Fast-track digital solutions
EnWat GmbH manufactures and services technology for the chemical-free preparation of drinking water. To improve processes and cut the costs associated with maintaining customer facilities, EnWat is employing an app that Siemens' experts from the MindSphere Application Center in Alpharetta developed in just a year's time. A highlight is that 90 percent of site visits that were previously performed are no longer necessary. The app is now ready for rollout to other companies.
News | 27. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Krone Establishes Digitalization Strategy with Siemens Digital Innovation Platform

    Agricultural machinery company to use software solutions from Siemens including product lifecycle management (PLM) to expand technological leadership

Siemens Digital Industries Software has announced that Maschinenfabrik Bernard Krone GmbH & Co. KG, a leading agricultural machinery company based in Germany, has selected the Siemens Digital Innovation Platform to help establish its digitalization strategy. Using solutions including the Teamcenter ® portfolio and NX™ software, Krone will launch a new digitalization program that will support processes over the entire product lifecycle as well as collaborative work between departments by leveraging the broad, integrated solutions that are part of the Siemens Digital Innovation Platform.
Press Release | 27. Aug 2019 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Augmented reality in the workplace
Augmented Reality (AR) has arrived in the workplace: For the last three years, a consortium of six companies and institutions chaired by Siemens has been researching the use of augmented reality (AR) in industry. The aim of the project, known as Glass@Service, was to be able to use intelligent data glasses as personalized information systems by combining them with new types of interactions, such as eye and gesture control, and innovative IT services. The first practical tests in actual production and logistics processes have now been successfully completed.
News | 26. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Desiro ML multiple units for Austrian State Railways (ÖBB)
Austrian Federal Railways (ÖBB) has ordered a total of 189 Desiro ML regional trains from Siemens. The trains will operate under the name "Cityjet". The trains will be produced at the Siemens Mobility plants in Krefeld, Germany, and Graz, Austria, and final assembly will take place at ÖBB's Technical Services factory in Jedlersdorf, Austria. Two design alternatives of the Desiro ML are built: the urban train design for large metropolitan areas such as Vienna and the regional train design. The ÖBB cityjet also offers a variable, low-floor seating arrangement as well as spacious entrance and intercar gangway areas, an attractive, innovative design and maximum riding comfort, and barrier-free entrance to all 550-mm station platforms in Austria. Austrian Federal Railways (ÖBB) and Siemens Mobility are jointly investing in the future of passenger transport and are developing an electro-hybrid battery drive for trains. Operating as a battery-powered train, the Cityjet eco is an alternative for non-electrified rail lines primarily served at present with diesel-powered passenger trains. Battery operation can reduce CO2 emissions by up to 50 percent compared to diesels. Following extensive testing of the prototype train, it is expected to first be used in passenger service in the second half of 2019. On August 26, the joint project reached its next milestone: The battery driven EMU got the homologation and is starting passenger service beginning of September 2019, bringing more sustainability to non-electrified tracks in Austria.
Feature | 26. Aug 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens wins order for first HVDC link between Great Britain and Denmark

    Viking Link ensures increased security of supply and integration of renewable energy
    Siemens to deliver both HVDC converter stations 

Siemens has been awarded a contract to deliver two converter stations for the first high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) link between Great Britain and Denmark. Viking Link will enable the exchange of electricity up to 1,400 megawatts (MW) to provide increased power-supply reliability and security to consumers in both countries. By allowing transmission to flow in both directions, Viking Link will support the integration of renewable energy sources into the power grid. The interconnector is being jointly developed by National Grid Ventures (Great Britain) and Energinet (Denmark) via National Grid Viking Link Ltd. and Energinet Eltransmission A/S. Viking Link is scheduled to begin commercial operation at the end of 2023. 
Press Release | 26. Aug 2019 | Gas and Power
Integrated warehouse logistics solutions
The family-run business Movanis develops and sells Automated Guided Vehicles, or more precisely, driverless forklift trucks. For optimum capture of their surroundings, these vehicles are fitted with cameras and scanners. In order to process the data and signals extremely efficiently and quickly, the vehicles are equipped with Siemens Industrial PC (IPC) control and communication technology. These vehicles, which represent state-of-the-art technology, allow Movanis’ customers to make optimum use of the benefits of an automated production and logistics environment. In addition to this, the vehicles compensate for staff shortages if, for example, there are not enough forklift truck drivers available.
News | 25. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Outstanding design
Flottweg SE is a leading manufacturer of decanters, separators, and belt presses. The company took an unusual approach for a plant manufacturer to ensure operation of its plants and machines is extremely user-friendly: In collaboration with renowned design experts and based on user feedback, Flottweg developed a new interface, including visualization, which works on any plant. The new solution, which is easy to configure and maintain, was implemented using the Siemens Simatic WinCC Professional visualization software. Amongst other things, the focus was on using standard components which reduced the engineering workload by up to 20 percent during configuration. Flottweg’s customers benefit from an interface which has a clear and open structure, allowing easy interaction with the machine or plant. This saves time and reduces the probability of error during operation.
News | 22. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
First painted car body presented for the new Vienna metro

    34 six-car Type X metro trainsets, suitable for fully automatic operation and operation with driver
    Deliveries to begin in mid-2020 with a pre-series train
    24-year maintenance contract ensures sustainable value creation over the entire lifecycle

The first painted car body for the new Vienna metro was presented today together with the public transport operator Wiener Linien at the Siemens Mobility plant in the Austrian capital. The trains are the city's third metro generation supplied by Siemens and are named "X cars." The first pre-series train is scheduled to be delivered in mid-2020. A total of 34 six-car trainsets are to be built. Wiener Linien also secured an option for an additional eleven trains. The trains are designed for fully automatic operation as well as operation with a driver. Plans call for them to be used fully automatically on the city's new Line U5, which is currently under construction, and with drivers on Wiener Linien's Lines U1 to U4. 
Press Release | 22. Aug 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens presents the new variable BZM evo series for underwater applications

    Increased power density and user-friendliness through easy handling
    Plug and play installation and rapid replacement of individual modules
    Increase in redundancy and degradation rates for fuel cell plants

Building on the success of the previous BZM34 and BZM120 fuel cell modules, Siemens aims to optimize the power density and user-friendliness of fuel cell plants on board of air-independent underwater vehicles with its new BZM evo fuel cell module. A single BZM evo has a nominal power of 40 kW. Future plants will be able to provide a maximum power of 320 – 480 kW, depending on the selected type of installation and number of fuel cell modules, without exceeding the footprint of an existing BZM34 or BZM120 plant.
Press Release | 22. Aug 2019 | Portfolio Companies
China relies on digital animal vaccine production
Founded in 1993, Jinyu Bio-technology Co. Ltd. is a maker of animal vaccines. To enjoy the benefits of the increased reliability, traceability, and safety that digitalized production offers, Jinyu Bio has embarked on an Industry 4.0 journey with Siemens. The experienced Siemens team has drawn up a ten-year digitalization solution covering the entire life cycle. The plan calls for integration at three levels – that is, end-to-end, vertical, and horizontal integration.
News | 21. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens builds new metro for Vienna
Wiener Linien commissioned Siemens at the end of 2017 with the delivery of 34 fully automated metro trains. The contract also includes the maintenance of the trains for a period of 24 years and an option for an additional eleven trains. The "X cars" will be operated fully automated on the new U5 line in Vienna beginning in 2024. The trains can also operate semi-automated or manually on previously existing lines. Delivery of the trains is scheduled to begin in mid-2020 and to be completed by 2030. The trains will be manufactured at the Siemens factory in Vienna.
Feature | 21. Aug 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Taking stock
OCP Group is a world leader in the phosphate industry and one of the world’s largest fertilizer producers. Present throughout the value chain, OCP extracts, values and commercializes phosphate and phosphate products. The Group operates several mining sites and processing plants in Morocco. Each of these sites has a large stockyard to ensure even material flow. OCP has decided to equip some of these stockyards with a material tracking and management system (MAQ) from Siemens. As part of the industrial digitalization program, all reclaimers will be operated autonomously by MAQ. This new solution will ensure the autonomous driving of the machines without local operator, leading to increased efficiency of the reclaiming process. In addition, the Group will have access to operating data, such as the status of machinery and overall stock levels.
News | 20. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Careful investment
Having produced over six million radiators, the Stelrad Radiator Group (Stelrad) is one of the largest manufacturers in the heating, ventilation and air conditioning industry in Europe. The company focuses on providing high quality products, innovative and individual product development and a wide product range. To maintain its competitive edge, Stelrad has developed a carefully designed, long-term investment plan, which includes modernization of the automation system. The Dutch company is relying on control and drive technology from Siemens to achieve this. With the new solution, which was implemented in just 14 days, the company was able to reduce radiator lead times by 50 percent, shorten delivery times and increase the energy efficiency of the production line by optimizing the heating of the paint ovens through process automation.  
News | 18. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Precious cargo
For over 300 years, Martell has been producing and exporting high quality cognac matured in oak casks. In order to improve coordination of the production teams and optimize material flow, Martell looked for a new time management and planning software. The company found what it was looking for with Siemens PLM Software. The new, user-friendly Simatic IT Preactor APS production and planning software allowed Martell to increase production by twelve percent and reduce delayed deliveries of specific ingredients to almost zero. At the same time, the company was able to significantly reduce the planning effort by 20 percent, the time required for tank filling by 30 percent, and even the team’s travel time between the individual production and warehousing sites.
News | 16. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Columbus to launch first-ever city-managed payment platform

    Siemens Mobility and Bytemark to provide new technology 
    Will expand Smart Columbus operating system 
    Public sector will manage passenger relationship for trip planning and ticket purchasing 
    Enhanced passenger experience

Siemens Mobility announced it will work with Bytemark, a Siemens Mobility partially-owned subsidiary, to provide a common payment solution for Columbus, Ohio's Smart Columbus travel app – the first-ever platform managed by a city, rather than a transportation operator or private party in the United States. The single-payment system that allows for both public and private mobility services to be paid using a single account-based payment system. 
Press Release | 16. Aug 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Intermodal transportation
As urban populations continue to grow, the need to provide reliable and efficient transportation that allows passengers to connect seamlessly door-to-door becomes more critical. From public transportation to ride-sharing, bike-sharing and scooter-sharing, passengers are increasingly looking for options that allow them to select their transportation options on demand, planning and paying for their commutes in one easy-to-use application. Together, Siemens Mobility, HaCon, eos.uptrade, Bytemark and Padam are providing these digital solutions that are making commutes easier and faster. 
Feature | 15. Aug 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens’ record-fast charging batteries convert Norway's ferry route to electric power
Norway’s largest ferry connection, Moss-Horten, will run on electric power starting in 2021, powered by new battery technologies from Siemens. The ferry will be equipped with the largest battery pack that has ever been installed on a ferry of this size. Siemens’ water-cooled batteries allow record-high charging power and will reduce battery cost and C02 emissions. 
News | 15. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Integration into MindSphere
With the Sirius Asset Monitor MindSphere app, Siemens offers an app that can be used for the transparent mapping of low-voltage equipment in plants. The Simocode motor management system is also included. Simocode pro provides detailed information that contributes to optimal plant operation, efficient maintenance planning and successful energy monitoring. The app enables access to the motor management system anytime and anywhere. It provides the user with detailed information on the equipment status as well as error messages and alerts.
News | 14. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens performs first large gas turbine exchange in the U.S.

    Brownfield Engine Exchange (BEX) delivers cleaner energy, long-term reliability, improved efficiency and more powerful performance
    Making Energy Greener is one of Siemens’ continuing core focus areas as the global energy landscape evolves and changes
    Over 30 engine exchange projects worldwide to date with several recent new orders

Siemens Gas and Power is focused on helping customers navigate the world’s most pressing energy problems, both for today and tomorrow. Essential applications include providing products, solutions and services that make fossil energy greener. A recent example is a project in Alabama where Siemens is has completed its first large gas turbine section exchange in the U.S. - delivering on that commitment. In this way Siemens is helping make energy greener and more sustainable in an evolving energy landscape.
Press Release | 13. Aug 2019 | Gas and Power
One cheese vat - 100 different cheeses
As a universal service provider in the field of milk and cheese processing, Giovanelli GmbH offers high-quality solutions for the food and beverage industry. Faced with growing requirements in the sector, the company developed an automated cheese vat. The ultra-modern solution is equipped with automation technology from Siemens and offers remote access as well as the programming of 100 recipes with up to 100 process steps. With this flexible and cost-efficient solution, cheese and milk processing companies can standardize their manufacturing processes and maintain product quality at a constant, extremely high level.
News | 12. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Well-tempered
Moser Mechanik AG (Moser) specializes in CNC (Computerized Numerical Control) manufacture of turned, milled and drilled parts for industry. These high-precision products have very tight tolerances: However, even minimal temperature fluctuations in the manufacturing facility cause the materials to expand or contract. This results in inaccuracies during machining. Moser’s plans for the new production facility they moved into in 2018 therefore included the installation of a Klimatower climate control system. This modern system improves energy efficiency and protects the environment by regulating the facility’s temperature and also removes particulates from the air. System control and operation is provided by Siemens solutions.
News | 09. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
111 hot days
In 2018, the Linz steel works modernized its large blast furnace A (HOA), the largest blast furnace in Austria. The general refurbishment, the so-called relining, lasted exactly 111 days and was thus completed on schedule. This was achieved through the excellent collaboration of everyone involved and the comprehensive simulation of the furnace and all the plant components using the Siemens Simit simulation platform. This allowed the HOA to be virtually commissioned which in turn allowed the project team to identify and rectify potential errors in advance. The simulation can also be used once the general refurbishment is complete, for example, for training purposes or for safe and efficient process optimization on extremely large furnaces.
News | 07. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens at the bauma 2019
Under the banner "Innovate. Digitalize now. SmartMining." Siemens is presenting the implementation of digital mining at this year's bauma, the world's leading trade fair for construction machinery. From April 8 to 14, the company will be demonstrating at Messe München in Hall C2, Booth 325, how mining companies can ensure and increase the availability and productivity of their mining equipment with the help of a unique range of services, comprehensive support and many years of technology and industry expertise. The digital solutions range from individual aspects to the entire mining operation.
Munich | 06. Aug 2019 - 14. Apr 2019 | Siemens AG Save the date
Keeping your head above water
The Erftverband is an organization that includes municipalities, counties, industry and utilities, and as a public corporation it is responsible for cleaning private and industrial wastewater along the river Erft between Bonn and Düsseldorf. The organization is also involved in ensuring flood control for residential areas. Heavy rainfall and storms create major problems here. In order to ensure optimal protection from flooding in these circumstances, the Erftverband relies on the intelligent control of retention and buffering capacities in the wastewater network. The technical components are provided by Siemens, who was also responsible for on-site implementation. The intelligent control system has been used to reduce relief discharge in the network, and to improve water quality. The pilot project also provided the basis for equipping other facilities with this cost-effective solution and controlling them in a network. 
News | 05. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Optimum automation across the globe
DSM Engineering Plastics (DSM) manufactures special plastics for the automotive and electronics industries in plants across the whole globe: These materials are typically used in cars and mobile phones. When it came to replacing obsolete control technology at the Genk site, a decision was quickly made to use components from the Siemens Simatic portfolio. DSM is thus able to respond more quickly and efficiently to production changeovers which reduces production times. The new process control system also decreases the reject rate on each line, lowering the error rate while increasing the standardization and user-friendliness. Now that the solution has been so successfully implemented at the pilot site, DSM has since changed to the new Siemens system on all its sites.
News | 02. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries
Third Quarter Results FY 2019
We released our third quarter results for fiscal year 2019 on August 1, 2019. The Conference Call for journalists and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
| 01. Aug 2019 - 01. Aug 2019 | Siemens AG Save the date
Earnings Release Q3 FY 2019

    Orders grew 8%, to €24.5 billion, and revenue rose 4%, to €21.3 billion, for a strong book-to-bill ratio of 1.15 and record high order backlog of €144 billion
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, orders increased 6% and revenue was up 2% compared to Q3 FY 2018
    Adjusted EBITA Industrial Businesses declined to €1.9 billion, due mainly to decreases in Digital Industries and Gas and Power; Industrial Businesses Adjusted EBITA margin was 9.6%, held back by severance charges which took 0.3 percentage points
    Net income of €1.1 billion included substantially better results outside Industrial Businesses compared to Q3 FY 2018; basic earnings per share (EPS) of €1.28 was burdened by severance charges amounting to €0.09

Press Release | 01. Aug 2019 | Siemens AG
Supervisory Board extends contract of Managing Board member Cedrik Neike

    Contract of Chief Human Resources Officer Janina Kugel to expire by mutual agreement

At its meeting today, the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG agreed to extend the appointment of Managing Board member Cedrik Neike (46) by five years. The contract of the CEO of Siemens' Smart Infrastructure Operating Company (SI) will now run until May 31, 2025. The contract of Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) Janina Kugel (49) will expire by mutual agreement on January 31, 2020.
Press Release | 31. Jul 2019 | Siemens AG
World’s best young talent supported by Siemens
Kazan will be hosting the 45th WorldSkills Competition from 22 to 27 August 2019. Under the banner “Skills for the Future”, talented young professionals from around the world will compete against each other for the title of World Champion in 56 vocational skills. This worldwide competition is the largest of its kind. This performance comparison, of non-academic occupations, takes place every two years and highlights a wide range of industries – from industrial control to hairdressing. To actively promote high-quality vocational training, Siemens will be supporting this event as a Gold Partner. The event will be hosted at the Kazan Expo International Exhibition Centre which was constructed especially for WorldSkills Kazan 2019.
News | 31. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
High resolution with double working memory
Siemens is extending the hardware portfolio of its new high-end Simatic MV500 series. The new Simatic MV560 U optical reader offer a very high sensor resolution of 2.3 megapixels and have two separate Ethernet ports. The working memory has also been doubled to two gigabytes. This large working memory allows a large number of images to be saved directly to the reader and a significant amount of information such as error images can also be stored directly on the device and quickly retrieved as required. This improves diagnosis, increases system availability, and significantly reduces downtimes. The additional Gigabit Ethernet interface enables the transfer of fault images without disturbing the communication with the controller – even for fast production processes.
News | 29. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
San Diego’s Metropolitan Transit System Orders 25 Light Rail Vehicles

    New LRV’s will operate on Mid-Coast Trolley Extension 
    Completes the system’s transition to a fully low-floor fleet 

San Diego's Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) has awarded Siemens Mobility a contract for 25 S700 Low-floor Light Rail Vehicles.  These cars will operate the entire 53-mile double-tracked MTS light rail network, including on the 11-mile Mid-Coast Trolley extension, which is scheduled to open in 2021. It will extend San Diego's current Blue Line from the heart of downtown north to University of California San Diego and University Town Center. They will replace Siemens Mobility's high-floor SD100 LRVs which were manufactured in the 1990s. This purchase and subsequent purchases will make San Diego's fleet fully low-floor and accessible. Delivery of the new LRVs is expected in 2021. 
Press Release | 29. Jul 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Mobility awarded order for 26 Light Rail Vehicles by Portland's TriMet

    Oregon’s largest regional transit provider
    S700 light rail vehicle will replace city’s Type 1 fleet
    Digitalization increases vehicles’ value sustainably over their lifecycle
    Contract includes options for up to 60 additional vehicles

Siemens Mobility won the latest Light Rail Vehicle (LRV) contract from Portland's TriMet, Oregon's largest regional transit provider. This order will replace TriMet's original 26 Type-1 vehicles, from another manufacturer, with Siemens Mobility's new S700, a low-floor state-of-the-art vehicle jointly developed by TriMet and Siemens Mobility.  The contract includes options for up to 60 additional LRVs, which would accommodate additional vehicles needed for further service expansions such as the MAX Red Line Extension to Fair Complex, and the Southwest Corridor. With the completion of this new purchase, TriMet's LRV fleet will be a fully Siemens Mobility fleet - with the first delivery expected in 2021.
Press Release | 29. Jul 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Servo press in the cloud
Zani S.p.A. forming machines (Zani) manufactures mechanical presses for cold forming sheet steel and has relied for years on Siemens as a technology partner when developing its presses; this was also the case for the Servo Master, the most recent press, and the largest in the company’s history to date, with a press force of 3,200 tonnes and a table length of seven meters. Siemens automation and control components ensure reliability, flexibility and efficiency on the servo press. Connection to MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT (Internet of Things) operating system also facilitates extremely accurate performance analysis and predictive plant maintenance.
News | 26. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Simulation on a new level - New version of proven Siemens simulation
Siemens PLM Software releases a new version of Simcenter Amesim simulation software. Digital twins can now be created even more easily. This is made possible by particularly user-friendly operation and simple access to the system simulation. The new version also includes other features for vehicle electrification, shipbuilding, control technology and to increase efficiency for the simulation.
News | 24. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Mazda drives engineering creativity using Siemens’ model-based generative engineering tools

    Mazda realizes electrical and electronic design productivity and innovation using the Capital model-based generative design flow
    Capital seamlessly integrates data across multi-discipline domains, including electrical and mechanical, for unified vehicle design collaboration

Siemens today announced that Mazda Motor Corporation has adopted the Capital™ electrical design software suite from Mentor, a Siemens business, to help maximize innovation in the design of next-generation automotive electrical systems. Recognized worldwide for its successful launch of innumerable innovative technologies, Mazda uses Capital for model-based generative design for the electrical and electronic systems of the entire vehicle platform. The Capital automated generative design flow helps Mazda automotive design teams manage design complexity and changes across the entire vehicle platform, minimizing errors and reducing costs. 
Press Release | 24. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Nigerian Government signed implementation agreement for Electrification Roadmap

    Comprehensive concept for the development of the energy sector of Nigeria
    Goal is to secure reliable and affordable electricity supply
    Scope includes rehabilitation, upgrades and expansion of transmission and distribution networks and power generation

Siemens and the Federal Government of Nigeria signed an implementation agreement for the Nigeria Electrification Roadmap. The goal of the Roadmap is to resolve existing challenges in the power sector and expand the capacity for the future power needs of the country. The document was signed by Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG, Onyeche Tifase, CEO of Siemens Limited and Alex Okoh, Director General/CEO of Bureau of Public Enterprises in Abuja in the presence of Muhammadu Buhari, President of Nigeria.
Press Release | 23. Jul 2019 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Lightning atlas 2018

    Siemens’ lightning information service detected about 446,000 strokes of lightning in Germany in 2018 – 3,000 more than in 2017
    Germany’s “lightning capital” was Schweinfurt, which also headed the list in 2014
    The fewest strikes in Kiel, Potsdam, Schwerin and the Lüchow-Dannenberg district
    Saarland the German state with the most lightning activity in 2018, Saarbrücken the leader among state capitals
    The most lightning strikes in 2018 on June 1
    At European level, Croatia tops the ranking in Siemens’ 2018 lightning atlas

The Lower Franconian city of Schweinfurt was Germany’s “lightning capital” in 2018, succeeding the Upper Bavarian district of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, which topped the list in 2017. Siemens’ lightning information service BLIDS (which stands for Blitz-Informationsdienst von Siemens) detected 5.0 lightning strikes per square kilometer in Schweinfurt in 2018. The districts of Rheinisch-Bergisch in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and Weilheim-Schongau in Upper Bavaria took second and third places with 4.0 and 3.7 ground flashes per square kilometer, respectively. Germany’s lowest concentration of lightning strikes was in the cities of Kiel, Potsdam and Schwerin and in the Lüchow-Dannenberg district (0.2). With lightning striking 3.0 times per square kilometer, Saarbrücken led the country’s list of state capitals in 2018. Saarland was the state registering the most lightning strikes detected per square kilometer, while Mecklenburg-Vorpommern was the state with the fewest. Overall, at 446,000, BLIDS again registered a comparatively low level of atmospheric discharges in Germany – although 2017’s level and 2016’s record low level of some 432,000 strikes were exceeded by 3.2 percent.
Press Release | 23. Jul 2019 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
IoT community MindSphere World grows through foundation of new association in Korea

    Korea is the fourth country to establish the IoT community MindSphere World
    In collaboration with other three organizations in Germany, Italy and South East Asia-Pacific to get the benefits from the international exchange
    Community to drive development of IoT ecosystem based on MindSphere and activate data-driven business paradigm in the fourth industrial revolution era

MindSphere World Korea, an association of users, developers, universities and researchers of the cloud-based open IoT operating system MindSphere was founded on June. Through activities in various fields, MindSphere World Korea is designed to create synergies among members by exchanging technical demands, developing market models and establish IoT platforms and ecosystems based on MindSphere. The association also aims to activate data-driven businesses that utilize advanced ICT technologies in the industrial environment.
Press Release | 22. Jul 2019 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Digital part machining - Metal cutting specialist digitalizes entire production
C-Mill Technologie AG (C-Mill) is a technology and service company specializing in machining. The majority of the company’s customers are active in the medical technology, aeronautical engineering and watchmaking industries. To further improve the quality and efficiency of its production and at the same time minimize downtimes, C-Mill took the decision to digitalize all of its processes. The central element of its digitalization project is a computer-aided design and manufacturing software solution from Siemens PLM Software. Its benefits include the simplification of important part measurement processes and complete automation of production from the model to the finished part.
News | 22. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
SüdLeasing orders 20 locomotives on behalf of SBB Cargo International

    Order for 20 Vectron MS locomotives including full service
    Deployment by SBB Cargo International on the Rhine-Alpine Corridor
    Option for 20 additional locomotives

Switzerland's SBB Cargo International AG has ordered 20 Vectron MS locomotives from Siemens Mobility in cooperation with SüdLeasing GmbH. The locomotives will be leased by SBB Cargo International to SüdLeasing through a long-term leasing plan with a flexible term. In addition, SBB Cargo International has acquired an option for 20 additional locomotives from Siemens Mobility.
Press Release | 22. Jul 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Optimum rotor profile - Siemens PLM Software supports rotor development
Research is being carried out into the flow mechanisms in fixed wing and rotary wing applications as part of the Georgia Tech Aerospace Program at the Georgia Institute of Technology. The Aerodynamics and Flow Mechanics (AFM) working group focuses on fluid flow around and within aircraft, rotorcraft, planetary entry vehicles, motors, and other complex systems. Its main area of interest is the improvement of the quality and performance of rotors by optimizing the blade configurations. To achieve this, AFM relies on Siemens PLM Software simulation technology. This allows the researchers to investigate various planforms and subsequently to improve the load bearing capacity and thrust of the rotors.
News | 19. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
High-performance basis - New generation of communication modules
Following the successful introduction of the Simatic RF185C, RF186C and RF188C communication modules, Siemens is launching two additional devices on the market: Simatic RF186CI and RF188CI. As well as the option to connect two or four Radio Frequency Identification(RFID) readers, both modules have an additional port for digital I/Os (Input/Output). The basis for this is an integrated IO-Link Master. For the new modules, access to configuration, commissioning and diagnostics tools is no longer simply supported via the proven TIA (Totally Integrated Automation) Portal but now also via web-based management. Simatic RF185C, RF186C/CI and RF188C/CI support OPC UA (Unified Architecture - standard for data exchange as a platform-independent, service-oriented architecture) as their interface to the IoT (Internet of Things) world, and communicate via the OPC UA Auto ID Companion specification V1.0 data model. This enables manufacturer-independent communication within the automation and a standardized connection to cloud applications such as MindSphere - the open, cloud-based IoT operating system – through an industrial IoT gateway. Siemens is therefore paving the way for high frequency (HF) RFID cloud connection.
News | 17. Jul 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Deutsche Bahn resumes acceptance of ICE 4 trains

    Manufacturers, operator and Federal Railway Authority agree on reworking concept
    Deutsche Bahn to begin immediately with acceptance and placing in service
    Reworking will be carried out during ongoing operation as part of the warranty of Bombardier Transportation

Deutsche Bahn will resume acceptance of further ICE 4 trains with immediate effect. Siemens Mobility and Bombardier Transportation have reached an agreement with Deutsche Bahn (DB) and the Federal Railway Authority (EBA) on a reworking and testing concept for welds that were occasionally not executed in the specified quality on ICE 4 body shells. Since these deviations do not preclude safe operation, the affected cars can be used in passenger service. As a result of this agreement, five ICE 4 trains will be accepted by DB in the coming days and enter service. At that point, the customer will have 30 ICE 4 trains available. Subsequently, DB will continue receiving ICE 4 trains as planned and immediately place them in service.
Press Release | 17. Jul 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Largest order: Siemens is building ICE 4 trains for Deutsche Bahn
The ICE 4 will be the backbone of the Deutsche Bahn's future long-distance network. In May 2011, the German national railway company concluded a framework agreement with Siemens Mobility for up to 300 trainsets. At this time the largest train contract that Siemens has ever won in its nearly 170 years of corporate history. The ICE 4 sets new standards in intercity traffic. A unique train concept has been developed, that means it can be individually adapted to the requirements of various transport tasks. The modular drive concept is based on independent Powercars with identical traction technology, resulting in more flexibility than ever before. High operational availability is guaranteed by a large number of reliable systems with high redundancy. All in all, DB will be receiving 1,511 cars with which it can configure 50 12-car, 50 13-car and 37 7-car trainsets. DB will keep two end cars in reserve. The 12-car and 13-car trainsets will be operated in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The shorter 7-car trains are planned for use in Germany and Austria.
Feature | 16. Jul 2019 | Siemens AG, Siemens Mobility
Siemens, Free State of Saxony and Fraunhofer sign future pact for Görlitz

    Innovation campus for attracting high-tech companies 
    Hydrogen research laboratory with Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft 
    Investments to total around €30 million, roughly 100 new jobs 

Siemens, the Free State of Saxony and the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft signed a memorandum of understanding today in Görlitz, Germany, to strengthen this location over the long term and support the structural transformation of Germany’s Lusatia region. Plans call for establishing an innovation campus and a startup accelerator on the site of Siemens’ plant in Görlitz. The aim is to encourage other technology and industrial companies as well as startups and research institutes to establish operations in this region. The focus of activity will be on digitalization, automation, energy technology and innovative material and production technologies.
Press Release | 15. Jul 2019 | Siemens AG
Smart Tea Production - Building a smart factory
Siemens and leading global Chinese tea brand Beijing Xiaoguan Cha Co., Ltd. (Xiaoguan Cha) launched a cooperation at the end of 2018 to build a new smart tea production facility in Huangshan. For this project, the first of its kind in China, Siemens is offering Xiaoguan Cha a wide range of services from its Digital Enterprise portfolio in the form of consulting and planning support. Together, both companies want to develop a customizable and highly automated high-end tea production facility featuring suitable industry software and solutions for smart plants. The aim is to set new standards for the entire Food & Beverage sector. The Siemens products used here are the TIA Portal and S7 1500 controllers.
News | 15. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Injection press 4.0 - Flexible control platform and digital twin speed up machine development
Maico Pressen (Maico) is a specialist in the field of thermal injection molding and a leader in the plastics industry with its plants. In order to shorten the machine development process in future and to simplify the actual commissioning of the plants, Maico relies on components from the Siemens digitalization portfolio. Maico benefits from a solution with unlimited compatibility, increased system availability, and a compact, modular design. By using Siemens technology and the digital twin that it creates, Maico reduces costs significantly during machine development and saves valuable time through the option of virtual commissioning.
News | 12. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Wide range of connections and excellent availability - New firmware V3.1 extends the possible uses of the Simatic RTU
Siemens is offering a new firmware (FW) version 3.1 for the Simatic RTU3000C (Remote Terminal Unit, RTU). This includes extended connection options for Hart sensors, for example for flow or level measurement. The Extension Board Hart/RS485 supports both Modbus RTU and – with FW V3.1 – Hart multidrop protocol. The convenient and secure remote access to Hart or Modbus RTU devices on the extension board Hart/RS485 is provided via Simatic PDM for remote maintenance. The connection of the RTU3000C to a redundant DNP3 master increases availability. "Hart" stands for Highway Addressable Remote Transducer, a standardized communication system for industrial fieldbuses.
News | 10. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to supply equipment and services for 840 MW power plant in Iraq

    F-class gas turbines, steam turbine, generators, and main transformers 
    Power Diagnostics Services for optimized performance 
    Power supply for more than three million Iraqis

Siemens has received an order to supply the key components and long-term power generation services for the 840-megawatt (MW) Maisan combined cycle power plant in Iraq. CITIC Construction Co., Ltd., the Chinese engineering procurement and construction firm building the plant, and Iraqi developer MPC, part of Raban Al-Safina for Energy Projects (RASEP) awarded the contract valued at more than EUR 280 million to Siemens. The independent power project is expected to deliver first power by March 2021 and enter full combined cycle mode by early 2022. The plant will supply sufficient electricity to meet the needs of more than three million Iraqis, while also supporting the industrial sector.
Press Release | 09. Jul 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens’ gas turbine generator packages to power Eni Mexico Area 1 FPSO of MODEC
Siemens will provide MODEC with three 34-megawatt (MW) SGT-A35 gas turbine power generation packages that will power MODEC's floating production, storage, and offloading (FPSO) vessel. The vessel, referred to as the "Eni Mexico Area 1 FPSO," will be deployed in the Offshore Area 1 approximately 6 miles (10 kilometers) off the coast of Mexico at a water depth of approximately 105 feet (32 meters). The field is owned by a consortium of two companies including Eni Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. ("Eni Mexico") as operator and Qatar Petroleum.
Press Release | 09. Jul 2019 | Gas and Power
Flexible IoT gateway - Intelligent tank level monitoring with robust Siemens solution
Wayra Networks S.L. (Wayra) is an IT systems integrator and develops individual IoT (Internet of Things) solutions for industrial clients in the field of hardware and software automation. As part of a current project, Wayra was contracted to install a monitoring system for more than 15 oil tanks. The aim was to optimize inventory control and to digitalize the previous manual tank level monitoring. Wayra uses an open, freely programmable Siemens IoT hardware platform as the solution for this and many other projects. This allows the client to easily call up stock levels using a robust, open system which is CE and UL certified, has an extended temperature range, and is easy to install. In addition to this, the company benefits from a convenient industrial gateway.
News | 08. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Rescue from the sky - Drones designed with Siemens PLM Software solutions for delivering medical supplies
Zipline International Inc. designs and builds autonomous flying drones that transport medical supplies in hard-to-reach regions. The company uses design solutions from Siemens PLM Software. This enables the easy and cost-effective manufacture of the drones, which can travel at around 100 kilometers per hour, and brings together the individual disciplines involved in the process, such as electrical engineering, mechanical engineering and aero engineering. Simulations enable virtual test flights, making it easy to identify and remove faults and to optimize the drones.In many countries around the world, for example Tanzania or Rwanda in Africa, the supply of medical products is a major challenge – particularly in an emergency. Areas are often remote and hard to reach. Above all, a lack of blood supplies frequently leads to fatalities. In 2016, CEO of Zipline Keller Rinaudo and his team developed a new delivery system for medical supplies. "Our first-generation aircraft and logistics system allowed us to create the first drone-only delivery service in the world", says Rinaudo. "And it is helping to save lives in Rwanda every day." Since the first drone took off, Zipline has completed over 7,000 flights and delivered 13,000 units of blood. This success is due in no small part to the careful design of the drones, where Zipline relies on NX software from Siemens PLM Software.
News | 05. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens trams type Avenio for the city of Munich
In September 2012, Munich city utility company (SWM) was the first customer to order the new Avenio for the light rail network of the MVG (Munich transport company). In the meantime, SWM has continually expanded its Avenio fleet.
Feature | 04. Jul 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Mobility builds 73 trams for Munich

    SWM and MVG order additional Avenio trams
    Order volume more than €200 million
    Deliveries to begin in 2021

Stadtwerke München (SWM) have ordered 73 additional Avenio trams worth more than €200 million from Siemens Mobility. The municipally owned company is thus drawing existing options. The trams will supplement those of the same type already in service in the city. Delivery of the first vehicles is planned for 2021.
Press Release | 04. Jul 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Stable weld joints - Plant builder optimizes established series of machines with end-to-end Siemens solution
Ideal-Werk C. + E. Jungeblodt GmbH (Ideal) is one of the leading manufacturers of resistance welding machines with particular emphasis on the production of flash-butt welding machines. Ideal will be using Siemens integrated control and automation technology in the future to further improve the established BAS 300 machine series with respect to operator comfort and productivity. The Siemens solution not only increases machine flexibility but also improves the engineering and service. This allows the user to respond quickly to changing process requirements and to ensure consistently high quality of the welded seams created by the machine, even under high loads.The BAS 300 is a resistance welding machine for band saws as well as saws with saw blades welded in an endless loop. The welded seams created here are subject to high loads and therefore have to be extremely high quality. In order to continue to meet the high quality requirements and, at the same time, further improve the flexibility and productivity of the welding machine, Ideal will be using Siemens technology in future throughout the BAS 300 instead of just in specific areas.
News | 03. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
SIRIUS 3UG546: Multi-functional load monitoring relay for DC applications

    Compact device providing combined functionality for measurement, monitoring and data transmission
    Separate detection of energy consumption and energy recovery
    Operating hour and switching cycle counters enable preventive maintenance
    Commissioning, measured values and status information via Profinet

Siemens has just launched its SIRIUS 3UG546 DC load monitoring relay on the market. The new device is the most compact of its kind for direct current (DC) applications, enabling simple and precise power measurement. The SIRIUS 3UG546 is unique in our industry: It is the first and only DC load monitoring relay to combine current and voltage measurement, power monitoring, communication and various other useful functions in one single, compact device. Until now, several individual components were required for each of these functions. The innovative new approach saves space and costs.
Press Release | 02. Jul 2019 | Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries
Siemens launches urban data visualization of Berlin at Mercedes Benz Fashion Week

    Siemens FABRIC combines design and data to tell a fascinating story about Berlin
    Kiani Del Valle has implemented a design by Vladimir Karaleev to create a 360-degree audiovisual experience dome
    Siemens also to launch "The Berlin soundtrack" produced by musician and composer Andrew Claristidge (Acid Washed) and available on SoundCloud

On July 2, Siemens will launch an extraordinary data visualization project called Siemens FABRIC at the Mercedes Benz Fashion Week in Berlin, demonstrating the crucial role that data is playing in the transformation of today's global urban centers into the smart cities of the future.
Press Release | 02. Jul 2019 | Siemens AG
Optimum filling - Siemens solution automates edible oils filling process
CFT S.p.A. develops and builds complete filling plants and packaging lines for a wide range of media including vegetables, beverages and edible oils. Approximately 11.5 million liters of oil are filled daily – it is therefore understandable that CFT needs reliable and efficient processes. The company therefore uses a completely electronic control methodology for the load cells and filling valves on its recently developed rotary filling machine – in other words, it relies on integrated weighing technology from Siemens. This end-to-end solution simplified the plant with respect to temperature fluctuations, filling capacity and variety of oil types. CFT was thus able to increase both the filling capacity of the plants and the filling speed to over 40,000 bottles per hour.
News | 01. Jul 2019 | Digital Industries
Stabilizing the grid: Siemens is ensuring a reliable power supply with innovative STATCOM technologies
In handing over the converter for a cutting-edge grid stabilization system to the German transmission grid operator Amprion, Siemens celebrated delivery of its one-hundredth STATCOM (static synchronous compensator) from the SVC PLUS series in mid-2019. Approximately two-thirds of the globally installed STATCOM systems with modular multilevel converter technology are from Siemens.The growing importance of STATCOM technology goes hand in hand with the new requirements to be met by the power grid. Renewable energy sources and decentralized producers are increasingly feeding electricity into the energy mix while the share of conventional power plants is shrinking. The volatile infeed of energy and ever growing distances between power producers and consumers make the grid more susceptible to fluctuations. STATCOM systems stabilize these fluctuations by absorbing or feeding in voltage-supporting reactive power, depending on the requirements. Based on the technology of conventional static var compensators, Siemens has developed additional innovative solutions, such as the SVC PLUS FS frequency stabilizer and the mobile STATCOM, which stabilize the grid and close gaps in energy systems around the world.
Feature | 01. Jul 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens hands over its 100th static synchronous compensator to Amprion

    Voltage regulation system for the Kusenhorst substation
    Two-thirds of the multilevel STATCOMs installed worldwide are from Siemens

In handing over the converter for a state-of-the-art grid stabilization system for voltage regulation to the German transmission grid operator Amprion, Siemens is celebrating delivery of its one-hundredth STATCOM (static synchronous compensator) from the SVC PLUS series. The turnkey installation will be deployed in the important Kusenhorst node in North Rhine Westphalia, Germany. STATCOM systems stabilize fluctuations in the grid by absorbing or feeding in voltage-supporting reactive power, depending on the requirements. This approach significantly reduces the risk of voltage drops and blackouts. Two-thirds of the globally installed STATCOM systems with modular multilevel converter technology (MMC) are from Siemens, making the company the world market leader in this segment.
Press Release | 30. Jun 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens to provide the power island, service, and financing for power plant in Armenia

    New combined cycle power plant Yerevan 2
    Plant operation and maintenance for 20 years
    Siemens to hold equity in special-purpose project company

Siemens will supply a complete power island for the new Yerevan 2 combined cycle power plant at the existing plant site in the Armenian capital. The company will also operate and maintain the plant for a period of 20 years. Siemens Financial Services (SFS) – Siemens' financing arm – holds a 40 percent share in the special-purpose project company ArmPower founded specifically for this project. Yerevan 2 is the largest single order that Siemens has ever received from Armenia.
Press Release | 27. Jun 2019 | Gas and Power
Customized chocolate - Siemens automation allows serial chocolate production in batch size 1
News | 26. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens successfully commissions Zimpro® wet air oxidation unit for olefins plant
Siemens Water Solutions successfully installed and started up a Zimpro® wet air oxidation (WAO) system at a global petrochemical company’s olefins plant in the Southern U.S.  The order, received in November 2017, is the second Zimpro® wet air oxidation system supplied to the customer. The first system was supplied in 2004. The Zimpro® WAO system will treat spent caustic generated in the production of ethylene by destroying odorous and high chemical oxygen demand (COD) pollutants. The system also generates an effluent that can be safely neutralized and sent to a biological treatment plant, where it is further treated for discharge. Siemens Water Solutions addresses water and wastewater needs of the oil and gas industry with a portfolio that includes physical and chemical separation, biological treatment, and complex hydrothermal technologies.
Feature | 26. Jun 2019 | Gas and Power, Portfolio Companies
Reliable power supply - Canadian power company relies on modern maintenance management with Siemens solution
News | 24. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Sustainable energy management - Bathroom furniture manufacturer relies on Siemens technology to reduce resource usage in production
News | 21. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
New ultra-compact UHF RFID reader - Siemens presents a reader with particularly compact design
News | 19. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Electric Flight
Siemens and Rolls-Royce signed an agreement on June 18, 2019 at the International Paris Air Show in Le Bourget (France) for the sale of Siemens' eAircraft unit. Closing is subject to the usual conditions and is expected to take place in late 2019.
Feature | 18. Jun 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens' Gas and Power continues focus on productivity and competitiveness

    Establishment of Gas and Power Operating Company leads to significant synergies and to optimization of support functions
    Necessary changes include adjusting capacities to reflect market developments
    Worldwide, 2,700 jobs to be reduced, about 1,400 of which are in Germany
    Measures to be implemented in a socially responsible manner

Today, Siemens informed its employee representatives about further planned measures for strengthening the productivity and competitiveness of Siemens' Gas and Power (GP) Operating Company for the long term. "Our new Gas and Power Operating Company setup has created synergies that better enable our company to deliver competitive performance in the midst of structural change in our industry. The planned measures will help us create more opportunity for growth and the security that comes from being a competitive player in the energy market," said Lisa Davis, member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and CEO of Gas and Power.
Press Release | 18. Jun 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens sells electric aircraft-propulsion business to Rolls-Royce

    Agreement signed: Rolls-Royce to acquire eAircraft
    Sale to accelerate development of sustainable air transport
    Rolls-Royce intends to become the leading supplier of electric and hybrid-electric propulsion systems for aircraft
    Siemens will continue to support the transition to electric aviation with its digital solutions portfolio
    Closing expected in late 2019 

Siemens and Rolls-Royce signed an agreement today at the International Paris Air Show in Le Bourget (France) for the sale of Siemens' eAircraft unit. Through its Vision 2020+ company strategy, Siemens intends to sharpen its portfolio's focus. For this reason, the company's business with electric and hybrid-electric systems for aircraft will have substantially better growth perspectives with new owners closely connected to the aerospace industry. Closing is subject to the usual conditions and is expected to take place in late 2019. The partners have agreed not to disclose the financial details of the transaction.
Press Release | 18. Jun 2019 | Siemens AG
Easy wiring - Grain silo modernization using distributed I/Os from Siemens
News | 17. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens launches international competition for conductors

    Siemens Arts Program and the Hallé Orchestra (UK) are hosting their first-time global conducting competition
    Winner receives a two-year engagement at the orchestra and £15,000
    Competition in Manchester in February 2020, submission deadline is July 1st

Siemens is launching their first conducting competition on an international scale. In cooperation with the renowned Hallé Orchestra (UK) the Siemens Arts Program is starting the "Siemens Hallé International Conductors Competition" (SHCC). The final takes place over a three-day period in February 2020 and awards the best young (conducting) talent with a two-year engagement as Assistant Conductor for the Hallé. In addition to becoming artistic director of the Hallé Youth Orchestra, the winner will receive a cash prize of £15,000 and the possibility to establish themselves on the global stage through numerous guest conducting appearances. The prestigious position of Assistant Conductor of the Hallé has already been held by Edward Gardner, Andrew Gourlay, Ewa Strusińska, Jamie Phillips and Jonathon Heyward.
Press Release | 17. Jun 2019 | Siemens AG
High-speed slide machine - Plant manufacturer implements new machine concept with seamless solution from Siemens
News | 14. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Young Russian soprano wins Siemens Opera Contest France in Paris

    Liubov Medvedeva awarded first prize in the Siemens Arts Program's opera competition at the Opéra Garnier in Paris
    Siemens Opera Contest supports outstanding young artists

Twenty-one-year-old Soprano Liubov Medvedeva has won this year's Siemens Opera Contest France at the Opéra Garnier in Paris. Medvedeva was born in 1998 in Kharp, Russia, where she studied music from 2004 to 2012, specializing in singing and piano. She also attended courses at the Moscow State Tchaikovsky Conservatory and in 2014 won first prize in the Elena Obraztsova International Competition of Young Opera Singers in Russian St. Petersburg.
Press Release | 13. Jun 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens Mobility to Create Andorra's Multi-Modal Transportation Platform

    Will provide real-time information to passengers
    Application to be built by HaCon
    Supports Andorra's vision for sustainable transport

Siemens Mobility, HaCon and eos.uptrade will create an intermodal mobility platform for Forces Elèctriques d'Andorra (FEDA), which was appointed to create this platform by the Government and the seven councils of Andorra. The application will integrate several transportation modes across the country and the first phase of the application will be available for download by riders in fall 2019. It includes public buses, electric bike-sharing and chargers for electric vehicles, and on- and off-street parking. It will allow riders to view available transportation options, plan their trip in real-time and manage payments across the various modes of transport. The investment will help Andorra achieve its' sustainability goals, including lowering carbon emissions and promoting public and multimodal transport.
Press Release | 12. Jun 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Planning efficiency - Intralogistics specialist automates planning process with Siemens software solution
News | 12. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens at UITP International Mass Transit Trade Show
As the trend toward urbanization accelerates worldwide, cities need solutions for some of their most pressing demands: the need to transport growing numbers of people in an efficient, reliable, safe and sustainable way. Therefore, comprehensive mobility concepts and seamless intermodal solutions are becoming increasingly important.Siemens Mobility has the extensive expertise and experience to deliver digital innovations that increasingly cross-link the "complete mobility system". Under the slogan "Shaping connected mobility," we will showcase those pioneering solutions at this year’s UITP Summit in Stockholm from June 9 - 12 – solutions that guarantee availability, make trains and infrastructures intelligent, increase value sustainably over the entire lifecycle, and improve passenger comfort and travel experience.
Stockholm | 09. Jun 2019 - 12. Jun 2019 | Siemens Mobility Save the date
Water reliably under control - Green water management using automation technology from Siemens
News | 07. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Velaro RUS – High-Speed Trains for Russian Railways
Russian Railways (RZD) has ordered 13 high-speed Velaro RUS trains from Siemens Mobility and Ural Locomotives, a joint venture of the Sinara Group and Siemens AG. The order has a volume of around €1.1 billion. The contract also includes maintenance of the trains for a period of 30 years. RZD originally ordered eight Velaro trainsets from Siemens Mobility in 2006 and placed a follow-up order for an additional eight trains in 2011.
Feature | 07. Jun 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Velaro RUS – High-Speed Trains for Russian Railways
Russian Railways (RZD) has ordered 13 high-speed Velaro RUS trains from Siemens Mobility and Ural Locomotives, a joint venture of the Sinara Group and Siemens AG. The order has a volume of around €1.1 billion. The contract also includes maintenance of the trains for a period of 30 years. RZD originally ordered eight Velaro trainsets from Siemens Mobility in 2006 and placed a follow-up order for an additional eight trains in 2011.
Munich | 07. Jun 2019 - 07. Jun 2019 | Siemens Mobility Save the date
Siemens Mobility awarded billion-euro order for high-speed trains

    Russian Railways orders 13 high-speed Velaro RUS trains
    Maintenance contract for 30 years
    Order volume worth around €1.1 billion

Russian Railways (RZD) has ordered 13 high-speed Velaro RUS trains from Siemens Mobility and Ural Locomotives, a joint venture of the Sinara Group and Siemens AG. The order has a volume of around €1.1 billion. The contract also includes maintenance of the trains for a period of 30 years. RZD originally ordered eight Velaro trainsets from Siemens Mobility in 2006 and placed a follow-up order for an additional eight trains in 2011.
Press Release | 06. Jun 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Part manufacturing made easy - Automotive supplier digitalizes manufacturing process with Siemens software
News | 05. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Economical paper production - Paper maker extends capacity and relies on Siemens automation
News | 04. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility awarded €80 million overhaul contract by Portland’s TriMet

    Oregon’s largest regional transit provider
    Majority of project will take place in Clackamas, OR
    Enhances value sustainably over lifecycle

Siemens Mobility has won a mid-life overhaul service contract for TriMet’s Type-2 and Type-3 Light Rail Vehicle (LRV) fleet, which is made up of 79 Siemens Mobility SD660 LRVs. The project order has a volume of approximately €80 million with options for up to €25 million more. The initial project will be complete in 2025.
Press Release | 03. Jun 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Always on the move - Logistics specialist uses fully automated storage logistics and tech from Siemens
News | 03. Jun 2019 | Digital Industries
Battery production with digital twin - Machine builder implements digitalization strategy with solutions from Siemens
News | 31. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens enters Permian gas processing market with innovative electric-drive centrifugal compression solution

    Fully integrated electric-drive centrifugal compression configuration will significantly reduce footprint, capital, and operating costs
    Project marks this Delaware Basin gas plant customer's first order with Siemens 

Siemens was recently awarded a contract to provide three residue compression trains for two, 250 million (500 million total) standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) cryogenic gas plants in the Delaware Basin. The customer, a key producer in the region and long-term user of reciprocating compression equipment, recognized the benefits of centrifugal compression and looked to Siemens for a fully integrated, turnkey solution that includes compressors, motors, variable frequency drives, and associated process equipment.
Press Release | 30. May 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens to modernize industrial power plant from BASF in Germany with key components

    Replacement of gas turbine from another OEM with an SGT-800
    Installation of a SIESTART battery storage solution for blackstart capability
    Customized solution requires comprehensive engineering expertise

Siemens has received an order from BASF Schwarzheide GmbH, a wholly owned subsidiary of BASF SE, to modernize the industrial power plant in Schwarzheide, Germany with key components. The Brownfield Exchange project involves replacing a gas turbine from another original equipment manufacturer (OEM) with a new, highly efficient industrial gas turbine from Siemens as well as servicing this machine for a period of 15 years. In addition, Siemens will install a SIESTART battery storage solution that will enable the entire power plant to start up independently of an external power supply.
Press Release | 29. May 2019 | Gas and Power
Optimum integration - Machines and robots integrated in one solution using Siemens automation
News | 29. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Sinamics Intelligent Operator Panel IOP-2 firmware update introduces new functions for Sinamics G series and Sinamics G120X

    Sinamics Intelligent Operator Panel IOP-2 supports local operation, monitoring, setup, diagnostics and service of all Sinamics G series converters
    IOP-2 also includes applications and functions for advanced setup of the Sinamics G120X

Siemens is extending the functionality of the proven Sinamics IOP-2 for Sinamics G series converters to include the FW V2.3 SP1 firmware update. This improves local setup, operation, monitoring, diagnostics and service of all Sinamics G series converters. The FW V2.3 SP1 update also provides users with the additional benefit of transferring special application functions into the project menu. These application functions are then easily accessible from a list which simplifies the setup of the selected functions using the Quick Start or Advanced Startup options. As a result, users can run their applications without requiring any specialist knowledge of the operating parameters.
Press Release | 29. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and BuntPlanet to declare a cooperation - Reduce water losses, secure water supply and increase efficiency
News | 28. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Fire protection connected to the cloud

    Introducing Cerberus Portal, cloud-based online fire protection software to monitor fire systems.
    Fire panel data is transferred to the cloud via the Cerberus Connect X300 gateway using encrypted transmission technology and a built-in firewall.
    In case of system incidents, maintenance personnel receives real-time information to react promptly, inform customers and prepare site visits.

Cerberus Portal is the first stepping stone in digitalizing Siemens fire safety products. It represents the initial component of the new Cerberus Cloud Apps offering. This is a clear push towards the current fire protection industry trend: "There is an ongoing disruptive revolution in our Fire Safety industry. That revolution is called digitalization. I am deeply convinced that digitalization will change the way we do business," says Johannes Mario Kahlert, Head of Fire Safety at Siemens Smart Infrastructure.
Press Release | 28. May 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
The right amount of fizz - Ottakringer Brewery relies on flowmeters from Siemens for exact carbon dioxide measurements
News | 27. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Sinumerik MC – the open CNC for customized processing machines

    Siemens presents a new CNC for woodworking machines at the Ligna
    Sinumerik MC is the open CNC for customized processing machines

At the Ligna Woodworking Trade Fair 2019, Siemens is showcasing the Sinumerik MC control as a universal, open CNC system. Its optimized motion control, high-performance automation and the integrated Windows 10 operating system make it the ideal control, especially for wood, glass and stone cutting machines. With its open operating concept, the control system is also suitable for additive manufacturing, adhesive application, plate cutting, straightforward grinding, and laser or water jet cutting.
Press Release | 27. May 2019 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Efficient and digitally networked woodworking – Siemens at the Ligna 2019

    Innovative woodworking control system
    Digitalization boosts productivity and flexibility

Under the banner "Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further", Siemens is showcasing an extensive portfolio of innovative control and automation solutions for digitalizing the entire value chain in the woodworking and wood processing industry at the Ligna 2019 in Hannover from May 27-31, 2019 in Hall 16 at Booth C14.
Press Release | 27. May 2019 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Step-by-step transition - Water provider updates supply network using process control technology from Siemens
News | 24. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Quick and comfortable race bikes - Race bike design with Siemens software combines aerodynamics and rider comfort
News | 22. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Intelligent Valve from Siemens: self-optimizing and connected to the cloud

    New Intelligent Valve with heat exchanger optimization for heating groups and air handling units
    Reliable automatic commissioning via direct download of parameters from the cloud
    Flexible mounting options to fit the space available

The Intelligent Valve is the first self-optimizing dynamic valve for heating groups and air handling units from Siemens Smart Infrastructure that can be connected to the cloud. The device controls the flow, measures temperature and output, and automatically adjusts the valve settings to the heat exchanger. The valve can be commissioned quickly and reliably via wireless LAN using the Siemens ABT Go app. It fits the space available thanks to flexible mounting options, allowing the flow sensor, valve and controller box to be installed separately. Because additional functions can be downloaded from the cloud at any time, the Intelligent Valve is always up to date.
Press Release | 22. May 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens and Chronicle join forces to provide industrial monitoring and detection for energy industry

    Partnership will bring industrial cyber threats into a single view
    New integrated platform and first of kind OT managed service leverages analytics to centralize and unlock the value of security data

Siemens and Chronicle, an Alphabet company, today announced a new partnership to protect the energy industry's critical infrastructure from increasingly sophisticated and malicious industrial cyber threats at Spotlight on Innovation, Siemens flagship U.S. technology and innovation conference. Through a unified approach that will leverage Chronicle's Backstory platform and Siemens' strength in industrial cyber security, the combined offering gives energy customers unparalleled visibility across information technology (IT) and operational technology (OT) to provide operational insights and confidentially act on threats.
Press Release | 22. May 2019 | Gas and Power
Reliable as clockwork - Swiss specialist uses Siemens technology to automate car manufacture in China
News | 20. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Rotor blades in a vacuum - Siemens technology controls modern vacuum infusion system for rotor blade manufacture
News | 17. May 2019 | Digital Industries
"Local" data processing - Edge Computing simplifies data processing in intelligent factory
News | 15. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens expands green energy potential with virtual power plants

    Buildings connected in a microgrid support decentralized energy markets of the future
    Flexible energy consumption, storage and load balancing
    Ecological benefits for society as well as new revenue streams for buildings customers

Siemens Finland has created a new business to expand its virtual power plant activity: Vibeco (Virtual Buildings Ecosystem) is an innovative approach to increase the benefits of increasingly decentralized energy systems. The heart of the virtual power plant is a software platform, operated by Siemens, that intelligently balances electrical loads from buildings that have been connected in a microgrid, incorporating renewable energy and energy storage.
Press Release | 15. May 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens at The smarter E Europe
On the path to the future of energy, decarbonization, decentralization, and digitalization are inextricably linked. The goal, after all, is intelligent, sustainable generation, provision, and use of energy. This requires integrative thinking and an eye for the big picture – from intelligent energy concepts to sector coupling, electromobility, and the integration of renewable energies in the power grid. At The smarter E Europe trade show, Siemens demonstrated how this combination of power generation, storage, distribution, and use functions in practice. The event brought together four exhibitions under one roof covering the core topics for the energy world of the future (Intersolar, Power2Drive, ees, EM-Power). In line with the trade fair motto "Take control: Be energy intelligent!" we presented innovative products and solutions for the grid integration of PV power plants, local energy systems, and for e-mobility ecosystems.
Munich | 14. May 2019 - 16. May 2019 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Sinumerik from Siemens becomes a digital native

    Siemens drives forward digital transformation in the machine tool industry with a brand new Sinumerik generation
    Sinumerik ONE enables seamless interaction between virtual and real world for significantly increased productivity in the production and use of machine tools
    Scalable CNC-portfolio for highest performance requirements and optimum surface quality

With Sinumerik ONE, the first digital native CNC, Siemens is driving forward digital transformation in the machine tool industry. The new controller works with software to create the machine controller and associated digital twin from one engineering system and thus contributes to the seamless integration of hardware and software. Thanks to its seamless interaction between virtual and real world as well as high-performance hardware, Sinumerik ONE is setting new standards in terms of productivity, performance and digitalization. It is the future-proof CNC for machine tools in the increasingly digital world of manufacturing. Both machine manufacturers and machine operators benefit from the universal digital twin for the product, production and performance.
Press Release | 14. May 2019 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Siemens extends software portfolio for workpiece quality to include another Sinumerik Edge application

    AnalyzeMyWorkpiece /Monitor enables continuous monitoring of workpiece production
    Quality control takes place immediately during production
    New application extends the range of existing applications for quality assurance

With AnalyzeMyWorkpiece /Monitor, Siemens is extending its software portfolio for machine tools for workpiece quality. The Edge application based on high-frequency data, which will be presented at EMO 2019, enables continuous monitoring of workpiece production in machine tools. Measured values such as position data, torque values or control deviations together with context information, for example the tool currently being used, are acquired from the machine with high frequency and without feedback via Sinumerik Edge. The measured values are compared continuously with a reference model. In the event of deviations that exceed a predefined level, the application logs the result, sends it to the machine tool and enables prompt responses by the operator. This means, for example, that unique process-parallel quality control is supported during production.
Press Release | 14. May 2019 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Siemens presents the next level of digital transformation for the machine tool

    Slogan: "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing – Thinking further!"
    New Sinumerik ONE controller generation as a digital native
    Software portfolio for workpiece quality extended to include another Edge app

Under the slogan "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing – Thinking further!", Siemens is presenting numerous extensions to its Digital Enterprise portfolio for the machine tool industry in around 1700 square meters at EMO in Hanover in Hall 9, Booth H50. The company has already integrated future technologies in its portfolio, such as its new machine tool controller specifically designed for digitalization, Edge and cloud computing, artificial intelligence and additive manufacturing, and is leading the machine tool world to the next level of digital transformation. "With our unique range of digitalization solutions, we are paving the way for the future of the machine tool industry and helping our customers, machine builders and machine users, to find new and more comprehensive ways of using rapidly growing data volumes to increase their productivity, quality and competitive edge", explains Dr. Wolfgang Heuring, CEO of Business Unit Motion Control. The basis for innovative technologies is the availability and transparency of data which can be used to create digital twins – of the product, production and performance – and which map and link together all the steps of industrial manufacturing processes in a virtual environment. "The key is to use this data innovatively and to convert it into valuable knowledge in order to improve performance and flexibility and reduce the time to market", Heuring continues.
Press Release | 13. May 2019 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Siemens presents solutions for a climate-friendly energy future
At this year's "The smarter E-Europe," Siemens is demonstrating its role in shaping an increasingly decentralized energy landscape. Siemens will show how the digitalization of renewable energy generation, storage and distribution positively impact the energy transition and sustainability goals.
Press Release | 13. May 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Flexible, high-quality production - Food manufacturer digitalizes production with Siemens software solution
News | 13. May 2019 | Digital Industries
The robots have it under control - Plant manufacturer relies on Siemens technology to automate robot cells
News | 10. May 2019 | Digital Industries
HP and Siemens Deepen Additive Manufacturing Alliance to Advance Digital Manufacturing

    HP's new Jet Fusion 5200 Series industrial 3D printing system integrated with Siemens' Digital Enterprise offering
    Combination of Digital Twins for product, production, and performance with MindSphere to enable mid-volume serial plastic parts production
    Companies collaborate to help auto and industrial customers create high-quality 3D printed parts faster; enabling unique product designs, new applications, and digital factories
    Siemens expands Additive Manufacturing Experience Center with new Polymer Competency Center to develop and demonstrate new applications suitable for industrial-scale 3D printing 

HP and Siemens today announced an expansion of their strategic alliance to help customers transform their businesses with industrial additive manufacturing (AM). Siemens, an innovation leader in automation and digitalization, and HP, the leader in industrial 3D printing, will expand their integrated additive manufacturing solution, incorporating new systems and software innovations including overall product lifecycle management (PLM), AM factory optimization, industrial 3D printing and data intelligence, manufacturing execution, and performance analytics. The integration of HP's new Jet Fusion 5200 Series 3D printing solution with Siemens' Digital Enterprise offerings enables industrial companies to bring 3D printed parts to market faster, more cost-effectively, more sustainably, and at higher volumes than ever before. The companies announced the expanded alliance at an event to celebrate the addition of a new Polymer Competency Center to the Siemens Additive Manufacturing Experience Center (AMEC) in Erlangen, Germany, where HP also unveiled its new industrial-performance HP Jet Fusion 5200 Series 3D printing solution.
Press Release | 09. May 2019 |
New firmware adds new functions for Sinamics V90 servo converter

    New firmware adds Fast PTI mode for precise positioning at even higher speeds
    Fast PTI mode comes with auto-tuning function
    Firmware update opens up new applications for Sinamics V90

New functions are being added to the proven Sinamics V90 servo drive system with the V1.11 version of the Sinamics firmware. The Fast PTI mode is now available for the drive system, increasing Pulse Train Input (PTI) performance by 70 percent. This improves the reaction time from the Pulse Train Input command to the actuation of the motor. The improved reaction time opens up new application areas for the Sinamics V90 which require higher dynamic performance such as high speed labeling as well as in the field of LED production (LED pick & place).
Press Release | 09. May 2019 | Digital Industries
The Prince of Wales visits Siemens headquarters

    Visit highlights the importance of bilateral relations between the United Kingdom and Germany
    His Royal Highness Prince of Wales gains insights into sustainability and the new world of work
    CEO Joe Kaeser: "Our relationship is strong, resilient and geared to a common future."

His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales has visited the headquarters of Siemens AG while on a trip to Germany. The Prince's trip is focused on the bilateral relations between the United Kingdom and Germany. During his roughly 45-minute tour of the company's headquarters, Prince Charles learned about topics such as sustainability, the new world of work and Siemens' Cents4Sense initiative. He also signed the company's visitors' book.
Press Release | 09. May 2019 | Siemens AG
The Prince of Wales visits Siemens headquarters
His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales has visited the headquarters of Siemens AG while on a trip to Germany. The Prince's trip is focused on the bilateral relations between the United Kingdom and Germany. During his roughly 45-minute tour of the company's headquarters, Prince Charles learned about topics such as sustainability, the new world of work and Siemens' Cents4Sense initiative. He also signed the company's visitors' book.
Feature | 09. May 2019 | Siemens AG
Retracted at the touch of a button - Siemens controller ensures rapid, low-noise retraction of TVs and monitors
News | 08. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Second Quarter Results FY 2019
We released our second quarter results for fiscal year 2019 on May 8, 2019. The press conference was broadcast live.
| 08. May 2019 - 08. May 2019 | Siemens AG Save the date
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q2 FY 2019: Successful first half sets up strong fiscal year

    Orders grew 6%, to €23.6 billion, and revenue rose 4%, to €20.9 billion, for a book-to-bill ratio of 1.13 and record high order backlog of €142 billion
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, orders increased 4% and revenue was up 2% compared to Q2 FY 2018
    Adjusted EBITA for Industrial Business climbed 7% to €2.4 billion, with most businesses increasing their performance; Industrial Business Adjusted EBITA margin reached 11.4%, even with severance charges taking 0.3 percentage points
    Net income reached €1.9 billion, near the prior-year level which benefited substantially from a €0.7 billion Adjusted EBITA from Centrally managed portfolio activities; the current period benefited from a lower income tax rate, and basic EPS of €2.24 was burdened by €0.08 from severance charges

"We delivered on our promises again this quarter, and even exceeded expectations in many areas. Now, we enter into a new era to become an even stronger and more focused Siemens."
Press Release | 08. May 2019 | Siemens AG
Klaus Patzak named CFO for the new Siemens Gas and Power Business
Klaus Patzak (54), currently Managing Partner of the Siemens Portfolio Companies, has been appointed Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the new Siemens Gas and Power business (GP). In this role, Patzak will be responsible for building the Finance governance structures, steering the activities required for carving out and listing, and helping to shape the format of the future stand-alone Siemens energy business. In his new role, he will report directly to Lisa Davis, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Gas and Power Business that is to be created. Via a functional reporting line, he will also report to Siemens CFO, Ralf P. Thomas.
Press Release | 08. May 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens to build focused energy powerhouse and further boost performance

    Creation of new major player on the energy market with business volume of €30 billion and over 80,000 employees through spinoff of Gas and Power and transfer of Siemens' SGRE stake
    Spinoff to give shareholders direct participation in success and enable rapid implementation
    Future industrial core: Digital Industries and Smart Infrastructure
    Ambitious medium-term goals refined and long-term aspiration outlined
    Savings of €2.2 billion by 2023 through structural efficiency gains planned
    Growth in future-oriented fields to generate net increase of over 10,000 jobs despite efficiency measures

Siemens intends to meet its medium-term growth and profit targets by clearly focusing its portfolio on dynamic growth markets and efficiency gains. To this end, the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG today unanimously approved the next steps in the company's Vision 2020+ strategy concept, including the spinoff of Siemens' Gas and Power (GP).
Press Release | 07. May 2019 | Siemens AG
Intelligent pharmaceutical production - Siemens process control system automates modern pilot plant in Austria
News | 06. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to focus on energy transition topics at OTC 2019
Join Siemens at the 50th annual Offshore Technology Conference (OTC), May 6 – May 9 at NRG Park in Houston, TX, where Siemens' subject matter experts will share their insights on navigating the "new normal" in oil and gas and the digital revolution quietly transforming all industries.Harmful emissions and a global population of more than 1 billion who lack access to power are among the world's most pressing challenges. Siemens is effectively addressing both, by making fossil fuels cleaner, building out the vast transportation infrastructure required to move natural gas to destination markets, and effectively harnessing IoT solutions to maximize efficiency and reduce risks. Visit us at booth #4422 to learn more about how our carbon-cutting, efficiency-boosting, and data-exploiting solutions are transforming the energy sector and the world that relies on it.
Houston, TX | 06. May 2019 - 09. May 2019 | Gas and Power Save the date
Siemens' technologies recognized at 2019 OTC SONT awards ceremony
Two technology teams were recognized today at the 50th annual Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) – Siemens BlueVault™ energy storage solutions and the Subsea Power Grid. Siemens is one of three companies to receive two Spotlight on New Technology (SONT) awards this year.
Press Release | 05. May 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens and TÜV SÜD Partner to Strengthen Digital Safety and Security for the Energy Sector

    Partnership defines a new approach to digital safety and security

Siemens and TÜV SÜD have come together to address the growing risk of cyberattacks on critical infrastructure by collaborating to provide digital safety and security assessments, as well as industrial vulnerability assessments to help global energy customers identify asset risk and cybersecurity solutions.
Press Release | 05. May 2019 |
Best for healthy babies - Baby food production reliably automated with Siemens technology
News | 03. May 2019 | Digital Industries
Secure KNX communication over IP

    New IP routers and IP interfaces ensure secure data and access-proof KNX communication over IP
    KNX IP Secure devices meet the highest security requirements in smart buildings
    More flexibility in power supply minimizes KNX bus current consumption

Siemens Smart Infrastructure expands the proven Gamma instabus building system with new IP routers and IP interfaces that support the latest KNX IP Secure standard. This extension of the KNXnet/IP protocol enables fully encrypted transmission of data telegrams, thus ensuring secure data- and access-proof communication between KNX IP routers within a single network.
Press Release | 02. May 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens to deliver power control system to Oslo's distribution network

    Spectrum Power ADMS to provide reliable energy supply for 1.5 million people
    One multi-site system to handle all voltage levels

Hafslund Nett, Norway's largest grid company has contracted Siemens to supply a new Advanced Distribution Management System (ADMS) for the operation of the regional power grid in Akershus, Oslo and Østfold. The fully integrated grid operating center will enable monitoring and control of the complete power grid covering all (high-, medium-, low-) voltage levels. At the same time, it will allow easy integration of third-party IT/OT systems, such as customer information systems, workforce management or geographical information systems. The project is expected to be operational at the beginning of 2022.
Press Release | 30. Apr 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens and Iraqi Government sign roadmap implementation agreement

    The agreement with Ministry of Electricity paving way to full execution of Iraq Roadmap
    Roadmap scope covers short, mid- and long-term addition of new highly efficient power generation capacity
    Includes rehabilitation, upgrade of existing plants, expansion of transmission and distribution networks
    Three contracts valued at around EUR 700m awarded for Phase 1 of the Roadmap

In a move that takes the roadmap for rebuilding Iraq's power sector a step further, Siemens and the Ministry of Electricity of the Republic of Iraq signed an implementation agreement to kick off the actual execution of the roadmap. The agreement builds on the exclusive Memorandum of Understanding signed between the ministry and Siemens in October last year, and outlines the specific projects, associated budgets and timelines for the execution phase, covering all essential elements of the electrification of Iraq. This includes the addition of new and highly-efficient power generation capacity, rehabilitation and upgrade of existing plants and the expansion of transmission and distribution networks. The document was signed by Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG, and Luay al-Khatteeb, Iraq's Minister of Electricity, in Berlin in the presence of Adil Abdul-Mahdi, Prime Minister of Iraq and Angela Merkel, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Press Release | 30. Apr 2019 | Siemens AG
Clockwork precision - Micro component manufacturer relies on Siemens technology for machining process
News | 29. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
For the optimum handicap – Ultrasonic cleaning system for golf clubs controlled by Siemens logic module
News | 26. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility to upgrade more than 11,000 communication radios for Network Rail

    36 million Euro contract awarded
    Upgrade Network Rail's entire Great Britain rolling stock fleet
    Interference Resistant
    Remote Condition Monitoring (RCM) and Connected-Driver Advisory System (C-DAS) capability

Siemens Mobility has been awarded a 36 million Euro contract by Network Rail, one of the largest rail infrastructure providers in Great Britain, to upgrade the GSM-R cab radios of the entire Great Britain rolling stock fleet. The upgrade will begin in October with each of the 9,052 driving cabs being upgraded over the next 30 months and will be completed in March 2022. In addition, Siemens Mobility will deliver 1,948 spare communication radios, for a total of 11,000. Each train will be equipped with Siemens Mobility's V4.0 model cab radio, which will provide train operators with improved interference resistant, communication quality and performance.
Press Release | 24. Apr 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Integrated and sustainable – Rapid implementation of new machine concept using Siemens technology
News | 24. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Riyadh: One of the world's largest metro projects
With six lines and a total route length of 176 kilometers, Riyadh is constructing one of the world’s largest metro projects. Riyadh currently has a population of 6.5 million people which is set to increase to 8.3 million by 2030 due to its rapid urban growth. As part of a consortium with the US company Bechtel and the local construction firms Almabani and Consolidated Contractors Company, Siemens Mobility is responsible for building lines 1 (Blue Line) and 2 (Red Line). Siemens Mobility, as Engineering and Maintenance partner, is supplying the rolling stock for driverless operation. Moreover, the scope includes project management, signaling, power supply, communication systems, depot and workshop equip¬ment, platform screen doors, testing and commissioning and system integration in a turnkey approach.
Feature | 23. Apr 2019 | Siemens AG, Siemens Mobility
Siemens to upgrade India's oldest HVDC link

    Siemens will refurbish 30-year-old HVDC back-to-back system in the State of Madhya Pradesh in India
    Modernization will extend the lifetime to ensure reliable power supply
    First Siemens refurbishment project of a third-party HVDC system

Power Grid Corporation of India (POWERGRID), the Central Transmission Utility of India, has chosen Siemens to modernize the country's first and oldest high voltage direct current (HVDC) link, Vindhyachal. Located in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, the 500-megawatt HVDC back-to-back system was put into operation in 1989 to interconnect the asynchronous 400-kilovolt alternating current networks of the Northern and Western regions. By installing its latest HVDC components Siemens will extend the useful life of the link. This will be the first Siemens HVDC modernization project in India and globally the company's first refurbishment of a third-party system involving replacement of the thyristor valves. The upgrade is expected to be completed in 2021.
Press Release | 23. Apr 2019 | Gas and Power
Maintaining biodiversity - Fishery relies on Siemens process management system for successful breeding
News | 17. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Arja Talakar named CEO of Siemens Oil & Gas
Arja Talakar has been appointed CEO of Siemens Oil & Gas, effective April 1, 2019. He will be based in Houston, Texas, the global headquarters for Oil & Gas and its parent operating company, Siemens Gas and Power.
Press Release | 16. Apr 2019 | Gas and Power
Future-proof chair lift system - Sonntagskogelbahn 2 in Salzburg benefits from modern Siemens drive technology
News | 16. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Flexible pump testing - Pump manufacturer creates test bed with end-to-end Siemens system technology
News | 15. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
A faster start - Simulation solution and virtual commissioning services from Siemens speed up commissioning
News | 12. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens develops blueprint for sustainable energy systems
Siemens has developed a comprehensive concept for energy systems worldwide – the first such concept that takes into account and brings together not only technology but also the areas of regulation and social engagement. The Energy Value Charter aims to create customized solutions that will empower countries to make their energy systems fit for the future. The concept encompasses suggestions for implementing sustainable power-generation technologies, together with recommendations on how legal frameworks must be adapted to ensure that the full potential of these technologies can be tapped. In addition, the concept specifies options for promoting social engagement, such as work-study programs, as well as for refinancing infrastructure while simultaneously reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Siemens presented the concept at the 2019 Energy Transition Dialogue in Berlin, in the presence of energy ministers from a range of countries. Siemens developed the concept to create a global framework for energy solutions for its businesses. With its Energy Value Charter, the company wants to enter into a dialogue with governments in order to shape energy systems in such a way that they provide the basis for economic growth, social engagement and sustainable development.
Feature | 12. Apr 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens to supply reciprocating compressors for steam methane reformer

    Siemens will supply three Dresser-Rand® 5HHE-VL-3NL reciprocating compressors for what will become the largest hydrogen production unit in the United States.

A leading industrial gas company recently selected Siemens to supply three Dresser-Rand® 5HHE-VL-NL reciprocating compressors for a new, state-of-the-art steam methane reformer (SMR) in Texas. The SMR will provide high-purity hydrogen for the gas company’s customers throughout the region.
Press Release | 11. Apr 2019 | Gas and Power
Mariel von Schumann to leave Siemens
Mariel von Schumann (47), Chief of Staff and head of Governance & Markets at Siemens AG, will leave the company at the end of June 2019, following the successful implementation of the company's new structure as part of the Vision 2020+ strategy program.
Press Release | 11. Apr 2019 | Siemens AG
New actuators for lighting and sun protection from Siemens

    New rail-mounted devices added to Gamma instabus product line
    New switch actuators with load current detection, new switching/dimming actuators and new sun protection actuators
    Powerful and universal applications across all devices, short installation times, low maintenance costs

Siemens Smart Infrastructure is expanding its Gamma instabus KNX-based product line with new switch actuators with load current detection, new switching/dimming actuators and new sun protection actuators. The new actuators are designed for residential and commercial buildings and provide reliable switching and monitoring of loads, switching and dimming of fluorescent lamps via 1 to 10 Volt control outputs, and control of alternating current motors for sunshades and ventilation valves.
Press Release | 10. Apr 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Appearance counts! Carefully thought-through device design makes handling easier in the field
News | 10. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
This content is no longer available
Press Release | 10. Apr 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Mobility installs intelligent signaling in three of South Africa's busiest rail stations

    Modern signaling and interlocking systems
    Increases operational capacity and reduces delays

Siemens Mobility and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) have successfully installed and operationalized a new signaling system in Johannesburg Park Station, Braamfontein and Pretoria station. To date, new interlocking systems have been installed in 40 of the 92 stations in South Africa's Gauteng province as part of PRASA's drive to deliver a world class commuter railway. Gauteng is the country's most populated province, home to three of the five largest cities in the country. The new system will increase operational capacity, allow the system more flexibility and reduce delays, improving overall operations for the transit system.
Press Release | 09. Apr 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Industry is cool !
News | 09. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens selected to deploy, operate and maintain cogeneration plant in Brazil

    Siemens' broad energy portfolio and services will help ensure long-term reliability and efficient operations
    Integrated, redundant plant design features two SGT-600 gas turbines with DLE technology running on residue gas with high concentrations of hydrogen
    Project highlights the integrated value of Siemens Gas and Power

Braskem, the largest petrochemical company in Latin America, recently entered into an agreement with Siemens to modernize a cogeneration power and steam plant at its Petrochemical Complex in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Completion of the project is expected in early 2021.
Press Release | 09. Apr 2019 | Gas and Power
Safer and more efficient: Catania Airport is updated with integrated building automation by Siemens

    Safer and more efficient: Catania Airport is updated with integrated building automation by Siemens
    More reliable and accurate fire detection using Sinteso connected to the Desigo CC building management software
    Cloud-based Navigator software to optimize energy consumption

With almost ten million passengers in 2018, Catania Airport is continuing to grow, solidifying its number one position in southern Italy. This makes the hub an increasingly important strategic part of the Mediterranean aviation network. As a result, however, it faces greater security and energy efficiency challenges. This is the context in which the Sicilian airport made the decision to entrust Siemens with its integrated building automation project, intended to increase security levels and monitor overall energy consumption at the hub.
Press Release | 08. Apr 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
840 soccer pitches of glass - Siemens technology ensures phenomenal glass output at the largest glassworks in Central Asia
News | 08. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
ICE 4: Joint statement of Siemens Mobility and Bombardier Transportation
Bombardier Transportation, a subcontractor for the ICE 4 project, has determined within the framework of its quality management that individual welds on ICE 4 railcar bodies were not carried out as prescribed. This deviation is not safety relevant.
Press Release | 04. Apr 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Expanded alarm device portfolio

    Stimulating two senses through acoustic (EN 54-3) and optical (EN 54-23) alarm devices
    Voice messages can be emitted in two languages for faster evacuation
    High alarming reliability thanks to daily disturbance-free tests 

Siemens Smart Infrastructure has launched new ceiling- and wall-mounted alarm devices. The expanded portfolio includes both acoustic and optical alarm devices in accordance with European Standards EN 54-3 / EN 54-23 and EN 54-17. One highlight of the expanded portfolio are the voice sounders with built-in voice messages because they improve the reaction time to alarms.
Press Release | 03. Apr 2019 | Smart Infrastructure
Countdown to the Tipping Point for Industry 4.0
New research from Siemens Financial services explains how manufacturers are in a race against time to gain competitive advantage from Industry 4.0 investment, before the “tipping point” of majority adoption. A must-read for future focused manufacturing financial managers, the Whitepaper explains how Finance 4.0 solutions are providing practical methods of helping companies to urgently invest in Industry 4.0 and gain early mover advantage.
Feature | 03. Apr 2019 | Financial Services
Siemens secures major order for integrated LNG-to-Power project in Brazil

    1.3-gigawatt turnkey combined cycle power plant
    Long-term service program and operation & maintenance (O&M) services included
    Largest LNG-to-power development in Latin America
    Total project volume of €1 billion

Siemens has secured an order for the turnkey construction of a new combined cycle power plant for the integrated LNG-to-Power project GNA 1 of Gás Natural Açu in the Port of Açu in the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Siemens is providing an equity investment and owns one-third of the project company Gás Natural Açu (GNA) together with Brazil logistics company Prumo Logística S.A. and BP. In addition, Siemens signed a long-term service agreement and will operate and maintain the plant to help ensure reliability, availability and operational performance. The order is the first application for the highly efficient and proven Siemens H-class gas turbine in Brazil. With a capacity of approximately 1.3 gigawatts (GW), the power plant will provide affordable and clean energy for Brazil. Total project volume for GNA 1 is approximately €1 billion (R$4.5 billion).
Press Release | 03. Apr 2019 | Gas and Power
Delhi's Blue Line Showcases Siemens Mobility's Intelligent Infrastructure Technology

    Features signaling, communication and electrification technology
    Mass transit critical to the city's urban development
    With 65 kilometers of Blue line track, capacity is up to 30,000 passengers per hour

The latest expansion of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation's (DMRC) Blue Line signifies the city's commitment to modernizing mass rapid transit and features Siemens Mobility's signaling and electrification technology. As one of the world's largest metropolitan areas, India's National Capital Region of Delhi has grown from 6.2 million residents in 1981 to approximately 25 million residents in 2018. With more than 2 million riders per day, the network is expanding rapidly. From just 87 kilometers in 2010 to 375 kilometers today, the network continues to grow. The latest expansion adds 6.6 kms for a total of 65 kms. The signaling, electrification and automatic train control systems on this portion of the line ensure optimum headway between two consecutive trains on the same line during peak hours, resulting in capacity of up to 30,000 riders per hour on one line.
Press Release | 03. Apr 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Velaro Turkey High-Speed Train
Turkish State Railways (TCDD) has ordered ten more Velaro high-speed trains from Siemens. The contract also includes maintenance of the trains for a period of three years. With this order, the Turkish Velaro fleet will grow to 17 trains. In May 2013, TCDD placed an order with Siemens for a first Velaro-D-based train. A further order for six additional 8-car high-speed trains followed. These first two contracts also cover a maintenance agreement for up to seven years, including spare parts, and the delivery of a driving simulator. To complete the first order, a Velaro was taken from the ongoing Velaro D production, converted for operation in Turkey and delivered within 180 days. The train took on the passenger service between Ankara and Konya on May 24, 2015. Nowadays, all further six trains are also delivered and in passenger service. These trains connect Ankara with Konya and Eskişehir and have already covered over five million kilometers in passenger service since December 2016 until April 2018, per month the fleet runs about 180,000 kilometer in passenger service. The trains currently operate with an average 76 percent occupancy rate.
Feature | 02. Apr 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens extends connectivity to all main substation assets

    SensgearTM technology launch for digital connectivity of switchgear products
    New Sensformer® advanced with applications based on digital twin simulation of transformers
    Portfolio extension comes with comprehensive data analytics for added transparency, enhanced productivity, and advanced intelligence 

Siemens is introducing Sensgear, its new digital switchgear portfolio, and the Sensformer advanced at this year's Hannover Messe. With the combination of the already well-established digitally connected transformer, the Sensformer, and the new Sensgear technology, all substation transmission assets are now fully connective, allowing operators to check their status via online applications in real time. Gas-insulated switchgear, circuit breakers, surge arresters, disconnectors, instrument transformers, and coil products will henceforth be equipped with Sensgear technology. All devices are connected via a smart and robust Internet of Things (IoT) gateway that securely transmits the required information to a cloud-based storage and visualization platform. All Sensgear products provide additional transparency with GPS and local weather information as well as product-specific measurement data that includes gas density, liquid temperature, gas leakage, and switching position.
Press Release | 02. Apr 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens and EDAG cooperate in projects for the industrial application of additive manufacturing

    Improving engineering and production processes

Siemens is intensifying its cooperation with the EDAG Group as a leading global independent engineering company for the automotive industry, in order to further promote industrial applications of additive manufacturing (AM) and to make engineering and production processes more efficient. Based on many years of successful project-specific collaboration in factory and production planning, in the field of engineering the innovative "NextGenerationSpaceframe 2.0" project will be presented at the Hannover Messe from April 1 to 5, 2019 at the Siemens booth (Hall 9, Booth D35) as the clear result of this successful cooperation.
Press Release | 02. Apr 2019 |
Siemens signs first long-term services agreement for H-class gas turbine in UAE

    Services support first use of Siemens H-class turbine in an aluminum smelting facility globally
    Siemens' first long-term service agreement in the UAE for an H-class turbine
    Power services will ensure reliable operations for stable power production 

Emirates Global Aluminum (EGA), the world's largest 'premium aluminum' producer, and Siemens announced the first power services agreement for an H-class gas turbine in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). With the new 20-year service agreement, Siemens will provide maintenance and repairs as well as onsite personnel support for the gas turbine and its generator at the planned over 600-megawatt (MW) combined cycle project feeding EGA's Jebel Ali power plant in Dubai.
Press Release | 02. Apr 2019 | Gas and Power
Patzak named Managing Partner for the Portfolio Companies of Siemens AG
Klaus Patzak (53) is returning to Siemens AG as Managing Partner of its Portfolio Companies (POC), effective April 1, 2019. The finance and transformation expert was most recently Chief Financial Officer of Bilfinger SE, having previously been Chief Financial Officer of Osram Licht AG. For several years, Patzak served, among other things, as head of Finance and Controlling at Siemens AG. In his new role, he will report directly to Roland Busch, Chief Operating Officer of Siemens AG.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Siemens AG
Save time in engineering with the new Comos Version 10.3

    New engineering portal speeds up plant engineering
    Object queries now editable in Comos web application
    Modular engineering with intelligent templates and central data storage

In the latest version 10.3 of its Comos CAE software solution for the process industry, Siemens is focusing on increasing efficiency in engineering. Using the Comos Engineering Portal included in this version, engineering processes can be significantly shortened. In addition to this, new developments and functional expansions are available for the current version in modular engineering and for mobile applications.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Simit V10.1 – More openness for even more integrated simulation

    Re-use of domain-specific simulation models
    Standardized interfaces for more system openness
    Real-time simulation of systems and machinery

Siemens has extended its Simit simulation platform for virtual commissioning and operator training to include numerous new functions. The additions in Version 10.1 improve the simulation of automation applications through the re-use of various domain-specific simulation models over the entire lifecycle of manufacturing and process systems. Improved performance, openness and flexibility make the solution even easier to use, supporting the user in the creation of a comprehensive and integrated simulation.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens at the Hannover Messe 2019
On the first day of the Hannover Messe, April 1, Klaus Helmrich welcomed you to the annual Siemens Press Conference. As member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG, Klaus Helmrich is responsible for the Digital Industries Operating Company. The Press Conference took place at 6:30 PM in the Trade Fair's Convention Center, Room 1 A/B. Mr. Helmrich talked about the latest developments of digitalization and the next step towards the digital transformation in the manufacturing and process industries under the theme "Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further!".
Hanover | 01. Apr 2019 - 05. Apr 2019 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries Save the date
Simple machine integration with OPC UA interface

    Data interface according to OMAC PackML
    First implementation of companion specification in a controller

Siemens has succeeded in implementing an OPC UA data interface in a Simatic S7-1500 controller according to a companion specification. The OMAC PackML (Packaging Machine Language) makes it easier for end customers and line integrators to integrate packaging machines and connect them to line or MES systems, thus simplifying the evaluation and control of individual machines.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Industrial PC for cost-optimized applications in the industrial environment

    SIMATIC IPC527G: Platform for cost-optimized applications in the industrial environment
    High performance and flexibility, fast availability
    Protection of investment thanks to support of existing systems

The new member of the Simatic Industrial PC family expands the basic IPC portfolio and is designed for cost-optimized applications in the industrial environment. The new Simatic IPC527G industrial PC has a compact design to save installation space. It is equipped with 6th generation Intel Core Desktop CPUs, a work memory with up to 32 gigabytes, and HDD or SSD mass storage.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Software update for planning and simulation tool

    Integration into the digital workflow with data exchange via AutomationML
    Import and simulation of existing TIA Portal projects V15.1
    Configuration option of modular switches
    Simulation of broadcast with definition of broadcast limits

Siemens is launching a new version of the software tool for planning and simulating Profinet automation networks on the market. Sinetplan V2.0, the Siemens network planner, supports plant planners, builders and operators of automation systems and Profinet networks already in the planning phase and facilitates the professional and proactive simulation of a plant network. At the Hannover Messe 2019, Siemens is exhibiting the new features with which Sinetplan V2.0 is integrated into the digital planning and engineering workflow.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens leads industry to the next level of digital transformation

    This year's trade fair slogan: "Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further!"
    Enhanced portfolio: cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence and Edge computing increase productivity and flexibility

At Hannover Messe, Siemens is presenting numerous additions to its Digital Enterprise portfolio for the next level of digital transformation in the discrete and process industries. At the center of its booth, Siemens is using a model for the automotive industry to show how the unique portfolio of industrial software and automation technology seamlessly connects the virtual and real worlds. Using cloud and Edge-based data analyses together with other future-oriented technologies, such as additive manufacturing and autonomous manufacturing systems, creates new possibilities in the areas of efficiency and flexibility.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Siemens AG
Simatic PCS 7 Plant Automation Accelerator V3.0 - for more flexible and integrated plant engineering

    Simatic PCS 7 Plant Automation Accelerator V3.0 plant and automation engineering software closes the gap between plant engineering and the process control system
    More powerful, more open version
    Increased system openness based on GSDML and NE150 standards
    Seamless engineering through the integration of various Simatic components

Siemens has extended its engineering software for planners and automation engineers, Simatic PCS 7 Plant Automation Accelerator 3.0 (PAA), to include new functions for even more flexible and integrated automation engineering. With this latest software version, Simatic PCS 7 automation projects can be configured even more easily and efficiently. With Version 3, the PAA software closes the gap between plant engineering and the process control system. The entire plant structure including measuring point data can be generated easily and synchronized between the systems. Automation engineers are supported in all phases from tender preparation (such as bills of material), automatically generated process control data from electrical engineering in the Siemens Simatic PCS 7 process control system (including controlled mass data engineering), to as-is documentation of the process automation.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
XHQ Operations Intelligence Software V6.0 – improved performance and end-user experience

    New Edge functionality provides better and more secure access to remote data
    Simplified integration of engineering data
    HTML5-based, new web browser client
    Server virtualization support increases efficiency and performance 

Siemens launches the new release V 6.0 of their flagship XHQ Operations Intelligence with enhanced performance while increasing the overall usability at the same time. With the new version, users benefit from numerous enhancements such as edge functionality. With an end-to-end secured site integration and light weight installation, this provides easy and secure access to remote/distributed data from all production (operation) and enterprise levels. The new version also enables enhanced operations by simplifying the integration of engineering data: interfaces with Siemens or third party solutions, such as Comos, Comos Walkinside, PlantSight, Teamcenter and more, are now improved and easily integrated into the system. In addition, the new HTML5-based web browser client is compatible with existing solutions. Version 6.0 no longer requires a Java browser plug-in (Java applet) for the full desktop environment, i.e. can run as a HTML5 compatible browser solution. Server virtualization support is available, which enables multiple operating systems to run on a single physical server. This increases business efficiency and overall performance.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Highest computing and graphic performance for future technologies

    Highest computing and graphic performance through up to two Intel Xeon CPUs and Nvidia Quadro P5000 GPUs
    Platform for artificial intelligence (AI), automatic learning, edge computing and machine vision
    High degree of expandability through six PCIe slots, six USB interfaces and a serial port
    Product designed for industrial environments with full-metal enclosure and high electromagnetic compatibility (EMC)

With the Simatic IPC1047, Siemens is launching an industrial PC platform onto the market which is distinguished by the highest computing and graphic performance. The new device is equipped with the most modern hardware components – two Intel Xeon processors E5 of the v4 series, two GPUs (Graphics Processing Units) Nvidia Quadro P5000 – and comes with a 19" rack design. The IPC in a rugged, full-metal enclosure can handle applications with high performance requirements, such as big data analyses, and thus offers a platform for artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, edge computing, and machine vision.
Press Release | 01. Apr 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens leads industry to the next level of digital transformation

    This year's trade fair slogan "Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further!"
    Roadmap for the factory and process automation of the future
    Scalable concept up to the MindSphere IoT operating system leads to renaissance on the shopfloor
    Enhanced portfolio: cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence and Edge computing increase productivity and flexibility

At Hannover Messe, Siemens is presenting numerous additions to its Digital Enterprise portfolio for the next level of digital transformation in the discrete and process industries: "Through the integration of cutting-edge technologies into our portfolio, we can help industrial companies to benefit from rapidly growing data volumes in new, wide-ranging ways. With the use of technologies such as artificial intelligence, Edge computing and additive manufacturing, we are paving the way for the future of industry. We are also rethinking process control technology and introducing the innovative web-based Simatic PCS neo process control system," Klaus Helmrich, Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and CEO of Digital Industries, explains at the press conference for the Hannover Messe on April 1. Under the slogan "Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further!" Siemens demonstrates how companies of any size can use industry-specific solutions to increase their flexibility and productivity and to develop new business models. "Innovation partnerships between large companies and SMEs are just as essential as cooperation between business, science and politics," Klaus Helmrich notes.
Press Release | 31. Mar 2019 | Siemens AG
Web-based control system sets new standards in the process industry

    New development – Simatic PCS neo sets new standards in process automation
    Intuitive usability and a single workbench for all tasks
    Consistent object-oriented data management
    Unique, global, web-based collaboration in engineering and operation
    Scalable from small process modules up to the largest process plants in the world

Siemens sets new standards in process automation and is launching an innovative web-based process control system for all industries at the Hannover Messe. Simatic PCS neo is a brand-new system software, which offers companies in the process industry unique opportunities in the age of digitalization. Main features include global web-based collaboration in engineering and operation and intuitive handling representing all relevant information in a single workbench.
Press Release | 31. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Optimum load distribution - New plug-and-play controller extends Siemens mining portfolio
News | 29. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Virtual testing of Siemens Siprotec 5 protective devices with a digital twin

    Can be simulated in a cloud in just minutes
    Saves time and lowers operating costs
    Simplifies training and speeds up troubleshooting

Designing and commissioning a complex energy automation system are time-consuming processes and often can only be done after plants and systems have actually been set-up and connected to each other. This used to take days and sometimes even weeks. With the new digital twin in the Siprotec 5 series from Siemens, tests can now be carried out before or while setting up the hardware. This significantly shortens the time to system operation. Project data can now be simulated and tested individually in a cloud in just minutes, with no hardware or additional effort. This also lowers operating costs, since improved preliminary inspections can shorten downtimes and thus increase system availability.
Press Release | 29. Mar 2019 |
Siemens supports study on impact of SF6 & F-gas free alternatives in medium voltage grids
The German Fraunhofer Institute for Energy Economics and Energy System Technology IEE and the French Grenoble Ecole de Management perform a study on the use of sulfur hexafluoride gas (SF6) in power distribution grids. The goal of the study is to investigate the environmental and socio-economic impact of SF6 and fluorine gas-free alternatives as the insulating medium in combination with vacuum switching technology in medium voltage switchgear. Siemens will support this study, and further sponsors can take part. The study is also intended to support the COP 21 Paris Agreement as well as industry's commitment to sustainability.
Press Release | 29. Mar 2019 |
Volkswagen also to cooperate with Siemens for Industrial Cloud

    Siemens to ensure the efficient networking of production systems, machinery and equipment of various manufacturers at the 122 Volkswagen plants as integration partner
    Data transparency and analysis to lay the technological foundations for further productivity improvements at Volkswagen
    Volkswagen and Siemens intend to develop new functions and services together with machinery and equipment suppliers which can be used in future by all partners of the Industrial Cloud

Siemens technology group is to be the integration partner for the Volkswagen Industrial Cloud. This was announced by Volkswagen and Siemens today. Siemens will play a key role in ensuring that machinery and equipment of different manufacturers at the 122 Volkswagen plants are networked efficiently in the cloud. The resulting data transparency and analysis will lay the technological foundations for further productivity improvements at Volkswagen plants. In addition, Siemens and machinery and equipment suppliers will make applications and apps from the MindSphere Internet of Things system available in the Volkswagen Industrial Cloud. Volkswagen and Siemens intend to develop new functions and services for the Industrial Cloud together with machinery and equipment suppliers; these will then be available to all future partners. The development of the Volkswagen Industrial Cloud is gathering pace.
Press Release | 29. Mar 2019 |
Siemens is raising the bar in facility optimization with Navigator

    Navigator combines distinct types of asset and maintenance data with performance data
    Deep analysis as the basis for new and improved Energy and Asset Performance Services
    Extended possibilities for apps and dashboards through integration into MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system from Siemens

Navigator, the cloud-based energy and asset management platform from Siemens, has recently become even stronger thanks to a new release issued this February. With this latest version, it can aggregate a wider range of data sets, more powerfully analyze data, and create a whole new range of customized reports for easier decision making and communication. "Since we brought Navigator to the market in 2012, it has been evolving constantly to help our customers make better decisions, reduce operational expenditures, achieve sustainability targets and lower their exposure to risk. For example, Building Technologies saved 10,96 million tons CO2emissions in 2018, which corresponds to the emission of one million small cars, which are all driving once around the world." says Eike Steffen, Global Head, Solutions and Services Portfolio. Currently, Navigator processes over 625 million values per day from over 80,000 connected buildings worldwide.
Press Release | 28. Mar 2019 |
TIA Portal engineering – goes cloud!

    The TIA Portal moves into the cloud: flexible use of the engineering framework in various phases of development
    Fast, flexible access to pre-installed engineering environments
    Integration of the widest range of PC and tablet hardware into the development process
    Fast access to project data through storage in a cloud-based FileShare

With the TIA Portal (Totally Integrated Automation Portal) in the cloud, Siemens is expanding the options of using the engineering framework even more flexible in the various phases of planning, engineering and commissioning. The possibilities that this offers are based on all the main features of TIA Portal V15.1, with additional available innovations of TIA Portal options – the simulation of the application in the cloud environment with the help of S7-PLCSIM Advanced, full use of the application possibilities, for example the complete controller portfolio including the new, redundant S7-1500R/H controller, the configuration of visualizations with HMI Panels, PC-based runtime systems, and the fully integrated Sinamics drives portfolio.
Press Release | 28. Mar 2019 |
New Simogear Reluctance Geared Motor – compact, rugged, and energy efficient

    Extremely high efficiency and low losses especially in partial load
    High dynamics due to low moment of inertia
    Safe operation due to low motor temperature
    Easy to commission – simply enter the motor code into the converter

Siemens is extending its Simogear portfolio with a new synchronous-reluctance drive system consisting of Simogear standard gear unit, Simotics reluctance motor and a Sinamics frequency converter for controlling speed. The solution has an output range from 0.55 to 4 kilowatts and is available for Sinamics G110M, G120D, G120 and S120 converters. Its efficiency class is comparable to IE4 and it is particularly impressive when operating under partial load when compared to asynchronous motors due to its greater efficiency and lower losses. In addition, the drive system is characterized by high dynamics due to the low moment of inertia and optimized control. Commissioning is also quick and easy – simply enter the motor code into the converter. An external fan is not required due to the constant torque/speed curve up to the nominal speed and the drive system is certificated to CE, UL/CSA and CCC is in preparation.
Press Release | 28. Mar 2019 |
Siemens inaugurates Qatar's second-largest power plant Umm Al Houl
The Umm Al Houl combined cycle power plant in Qatar has been inaugurated by Siemens, delivering almost a quarter of the country's installed power generating capacity and providing up to 136 million imperial gallons of drinking water per day. It is the second-largest power plant in the country.
Press Release | 28. Mar 2019 |
Siemens expands its portfolio for SF6-free medium-voltage switchgear

    8DJH 12 switchgear is expanding the "blue GIS" portfolio in the medium-voltage range
    "Clean Air" used as the F gas-free insulating medium
    Follows the proven operating concept for load-break switchgear
    Connection to IoT platforms integrated

At this year's Hannover Messe trade fair, Siemens will present the 8DJH 12, an additional medium voltage switchgear that uses "Clean Air" as the insulating medium. "Clean Air" is an insulating gas consisting only of the natural constituents of ambient air. The new gas-insulated load-break switchgear (ring main unit) thus combines the sustainability of the "blue GIS" portfolio with the benefits of the proven 8DJH product family. The switchgear is used in public and industrial power grids on the secondary distribution level.
Press Release | 28. Mar 2019 |
Two power supplies in one - Improved power supply from Siemens for use in more areas and with greater functionality
News | 27. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
SIEMENS and State Power Investment Corporation Limited (SPIC) agree on comprehensive cooperation

    Strategic Partnership Agreement signed
    Technology collaboration agreement in heavy-duty gas turbines

Siemens AG and State Power Investment Corporation Limited (SPIC) signed a comprehensive Strategic Partnership Framework Agreement (SPFA). This follows a Technology Collaboration agreement on heavy-duty gas turbines between Siemens AG and China United Heavy-duty Gas Turbine Company (UGTC). The SPFA was signed by Qian Zhimin, Chairman of SPIC and Joe Kaeser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG on March 26, 2019 in Beijing. The SPFA will further expand the cooperation in power generation in addition to the earlier agreed technology collaboration between Siemens AG and UGTC and will create a China-based supplier eco-system. Both companies will also collaborate in high-technology product demonstration e.g. in the field of digitalization of power plants or in hydrogen utilization projects and smart energy management for a decentralized energy system. Furthermore, both parties agreed to cooperate in project execution, and will jointly develop proper Gas-to-Power projects worldwide.
Press Release | 26. Mar 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens launches an initiative for fast ramp-up of production facilities together with industry partner companies

    Many companies and institutes from the University of Stuttgart are already participating in the "Fast Ramp-Up Challenge".
    Additional companies can join the initiative until May 23.
    Ramp-up of prototypes within only two days planned at the ARENA2036 innovation factory
    Open, cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere in action

Siemens has launched an initiative to enable fast ramp-up and reconfiguration of production facilities together with partner companies from the mechanical engineering, automotive, robotics and information technology industries. Companies can still register and present their proposals on May 23. Prototypes will be tested at the ARENA2036 innovation factory in mid-October. As part of the "Fast Ramp-Up Challenge" competition, production cells from several companies are to be set up within just two days using MindSphere, the open cloud-based operating system for the Internet of Things (IoT) from Siemens.
Press Release | 26. Mar 2019 |
The new regional trains for the Elbe-Spree network come from Siemens

    23 Desiro HC trainsets
    Order worth around €300 million
    Service on the regional lines RE1, RE8 and RB17 in the Elbe-Spree network
    Option to increase capacity of the RE1 trains following platform extensions
    Attractive passenger experience and significant capacity increase

Ostdeutsche Eisenbahn GmbH (ODEG) has ordered 23 Desiro HC regional trains from Siemens for service on the Elbe-Spree network. The order is worth around €300 million. The multiple-unit trains are planned to be used on the regional lines RE1, RE8 and RB17 in the new Elbe-Spree network. In January 2019, ODEG was awarded the contract to operate these lines following a Europe-wide tender by Verkehrsverbund Berlin-Brandenburg (VBB). The contract includes the option to expand the capacity of the RE1 trains when the station platforms along this line are extended. Delivery of the 21 six-car and two four-car trains is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2022. The start of operations is planned for the timetable change in December 2022. The trains will be built at the Siemens plant in Krefeld, Germany.
Press Release | 26. Mar 2019 | Siemens Mobility
The new regional trains for the Elbe-Spree network come from Siemens
Ostdeutsche Eisenbahn GmbH (ODEG) has ordered 23 Desiro HC regional trains from Siemens for service on the Elbe-Spree network. The order is worth around €300 million. Delivery of the 21 six-car and two four-car trains is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2022. In January 2019, ODEG was awarded the contract to operate these lines following a Europe-wide tender by Verkehrsverbund Berlin-Brandenburg (VBB). The Desiro trainsets will be used on the regional express line RE1 (lot 1) connecting Magdeburg with Cottbus via Berlin and Frankfurt (Oder). During rush hours, trains will operate three times an hour between Brandenburg a. d. Havel and Frankfurt (Oder). The four-car Desiros are planned for service on the RE8 line connecting Wismar and Wittenberge with Baruth and Elsterwerda/Finsterwalde via Berlin, as well as on the RB17 line connecting Wismar and Ludwigslust. The trains have generous space available for bicycles, strollers and wheelchairs and a multipurpose car with a barrier-free WC. Sliding steps enable barrier-free access at stations with 550 mm and 760 mm platform heights. Wider doors than in older trains speed and ease passenger boarding and exiting. Free WLAN on board enhances passenger convenience. A passenger safety system provides live camera coverage of activities in the cars. In case of a conflict or problem, supervisors at the operations control center can communicate directly with the car via loudspeakers. The cars are equipped inside and outside with real-time capacity displays, and this information can also be accessed via the VBB app.
Feature | 26. Mar 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Optical reader optimizes production processes and supply chains

    Higher reading rates and reading reliability
    Additional Gigabit Ethernet interface for diagnostic and service purposes
    Easy connection to cloud applications via Simatic S7-1500 and CP 1545-1
    Powerful, flexible accessories and easy handling

Siemens has introduced the Simatic MV550, the second optical reader in its new high-end Simatic MV500 series. The device is characterized by higher computing power, which allows a fast reading process and increased reading reliability – even under difficult conditions. It has an additional Gigabit Ethernet interface for diagnostic and service purposes. The Simatic MV500 can be easily and securely connected to cloud applications. This enables users to optimize production processes and supply chains, and to increase the efficiency and quality of production, logistics and asset management.
Press Release | 25. Mar 2019 |
Siemens supplies first SGT-A45 mobile power generation unit

    First new gas-fired power plant project in Afghanistan since the 1970s
    Electricity generation planned for summer 2019

Siemens has received the first order for its SGT-A45 mobile unit from Bayat Power, a company of the Bayat Group. A few months from now, a complete gas-fired power plant, centered around the SGT-A45 trailer-mounted unit, will begin to provide electricity for the Jowzjan Province in northern Afghanistan. The mobile solution utilizes an aeroderivative gas turbine, which can provide capacity of up to 41 Megawatts (MW) of power at 50 Hertz (Hz). The SGT-A45 mobile unit is fully tested and pre-commissioned in the factory, and its trailer-mounted design minimizes the amount of construction work required on site. As a result, the plant can begin producing electricity in only a few months and will be capable of supplying power for approximately 200,000 homes. As the first new gas-fired power plant project in Afghanistan since the 1970s, Bayat Power Phase 1 will supply clean and reliable electricity, a first step to energy independence for the country.
Press Release | 25. Mar 2019 |
New DC/DC converter – Stable power supply despite fluctuating DC voltage
News | 25. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Modules for all-round protection - Selectivity and redundancy modules protect the plant
News | 22. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens CloudConnect simplifies IIoT data transfer to cloud-based solutions

    New CP 1545-1 communications processor for use with Simatic S7 1500
    New Simatic CloudConnect 7 Industrial IoT Gateway for existing systems
    Event-driven communication reduces network load and costsStandardized MQTT protocol enables transmission to various cloud platforms

The Siemens CloudConnect portfolio simplifies data transfer within the IIoT (Industrial Internet of Things) to cloud-based solutions. To this end, Siemens is offering the new Simatic CP 1545-1 communications processor, designed for use with Simatic S7-1500 in modern automation environments. For the cloud connection of existing systems, Siemens is now also offering the new Simatic CloudConnect 7 Industrial IoT Gateway. With CloudConnect, it is even easier for users to benefit from cloud-based data analyses. They can enhance machine availability by evaluating data for predictive maintenance purposes, for example, or machine manufacturers can offer new marketing models such as pay-per-use.
Press Release | 21. Mar 2019 |
High-speed travel in a vacuum - Siemens supports contestants in developing a "super train"
News | 20. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Sinamics S120 drive system - firmware and hardware updates increase user-friendliness

    New firmware V5.2 for even easier operation of Sinamics S120 drive systems
    Integration of the web server with new, responsive design and no special commissioning tools for diagnostics, maintenance and servicing
    Parallel connection of Active Line Modules (ALM) provides an extended performance range for booksize versions
    Users benefit from increased rated power without additional chassis unit and energy exchange in the DC link

Siemens offers new features in the firmware and hardware for the Sinamics S120 drive system. Operation is made much easier in firmware V5.2 through the integration of the web server. The web server in version V5.2 has a new, responsive design, which reacts via standard web browsers regardless of the end device used (notebook, PC, tablet or smartphone). For commissioning typical diagnostics and maintenance functions or servicing, no special tools are required. The web pages are available in six standard languages and feature error indicators and warning messages including meaningful help texts and suggestions for possible solutions. Users can intuitively create, manage and delete parameter lists - even across axes - and can perform firmware updates and system restores with the old firmware version. Backups of parameter settings can be stored on the clients using the web server and browser, and reloaded in the Sinamics converter using the Restore function. In order to test functions that are subject to license, it is possible to activate a temporary trial mode. In addition, a complete overview of all functions that are subject to license is clearly displayed in the web server. For optimum display on any Internet-capable end device, the best browsers are Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Safari. Navigation is via menu or breadcrumbs.
Press Release | 19. Mar 2019 |
Siemens Mobility delivers locomotives to Austrian Federal Railways

    61 Vectron MS locomotives
    Deliveries beginning in March 2020

Austrian Federal Railways (ÖBB) has ordered 61 Vectron MS locomotives from Siemens Mobility. With this order, ÖBB is calling a further option from the framework contract signed in January 2017 for the delivery of up to 200 Vectron locomotives. This now brings the total number of locomotives ordered to date to 108. The locomotives will be operated by the Rail Cargo Group, the freight division of ÖBB, and are planned for cross-border freight service in several European countries. The locomotives will be built at Siemens Mobility's factory in Munich-Allach, and deliveries will begin in March 2020.
Press Release | 19. Mar 2019 | Siemens Mobility
GAIL (India) Limited to equip gas turbines with Siemens Remote Diagnostic Services

    Real-time data analysis from 29 gas turbines across multiple locations will increase availability, reduce forced outages and enable proactive, prescriptive maintenance
    Digitalization to improve availability, efficiency, productivity and flexibility

Siemens will install state-of-the-art Remote Diagnostic Services (RDS) for GAIL (India) Limited covering 29 gas turbines operating across the Hazira-Vijaipur-Jagdishpur (HVJ) pipeline and the Vijaipur C2/C3 Plant. The scope includes the supply of RDS hardware, site installation and commissioning including remote Operational Service Desk (OSD) and helpdesk services. The OSD will be accessible 24/7, equipped with machine learning tools and manned by technical experts to provide faster, high quality troubleshooting and guidance for problem resolution.
Feature | 18. Mar 2019 | Gas and Power
Siemens strengthens ownership culture

    Company awards free shares worth nearly €68 million
    High number of employee shareholders – 300,000 – constant since last year
    For the first time, Siemens employees worldwide donate share dividends to social projects

Today is "Share Day" in Germany, and Siemens is marking the occasion by highlighting its firmly anchored ownership culture: some 300,000 of the company's 379,000 employees worldwide are also Siemens shareholders. This means that nearly 80 percent of all Siemens employees are simultaneously co-owners of their company. The number of employee shareholders at Siemens has remained constant since last year. No comparable company can point to such a high number of employee shareholders.
Press Release | 18. Mar 2019 | Siemens AG
Wireless connection - New client modules provide reliable, high-performance connection of end devices
News | 18. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Vibrant equity culture at Siemens: around 300,000 employee shareholders
Siemens wants to foster a vibrant equity culture at all levels of the company. Through a variety of share plans such as the Share Matching Program – one of the world’s largest employee share programs – Siemens employees can also become company owners. In addition, Siemens Profit Sharing was launched in 2015 to enable all employees below management level to participate in the company’s development. Share ownership is a key aspect of Siemens’ Ownership Culture, which aims to motivate every employee to act as if Siemens were his or her own company. Around 80 percent of Siemens’ global workforce currently holds shares in the company. Employee equity programs pay off for both sides – for companies and employees. When employees own equity in the company they work for, they participate directly in its development and gain an opportunity to accumulate assets they can use, for example, to increase their retirement savings. By supporting the Berliner Appell (Berlin Appeal), for instance, Siemens is calling for better tax incentives to further encourage employee share ownership in Germany.
Feature | 18. Mar 2019 | Siemens AG
Networking provides crystal-clear benefits - Siemens solutions successfully automate batch and cullet plants
News | 15. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility and Paribus sign framework agreement for 25 Smartron locomotives

    Initial call for four Smartron locomotives includesmaintenance contract with Siemens Mobility
    Deliveries to begin in October 2019

Siemens Mobility and Paribus Holding GmbH & Co. KG, a Hamburg-based investment and asset management firm for rail rolling stock and real estate, have signed a framework agreement for the delivery of 25 Smartron locomotives. The deal was arranged and structured by Paribus for Paris-based RIVE Private Investment. The asset management of the locomotives will be handled by northrail GmbH, the rail asset management subsidiary of Paribus. Four locomotives valued at €2.5 million each have already been ordered. Three of these will be leased by northrail GmbH to TX Logistik AG. The locomotives are intended for freight transport in Germany. Deliveries are scheduled to begin in October 2019. Siemens Mobility will also be responsible for maintenance of the locomotives for a period of eight years.
Press Release | 13. Mar 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Turkey's Marmaray rail line enters service with Siemens Mobility technology

    76 km rail line now in operation
    Project connects Gebze in Asia and Halkali in Europe with commuter, intercity and high speed trains as well as a freight link
    Project features Signaling and Control, Communications and SCADA systems as well as CBTC and ERTMS technology

Turkish State Railways has inaugurated revenue service for main phase of the Marmaray project, an initiative to connect the Asia-Europe corridor. As part of the joint venture, constructing this line, Siemens Mobility installed and commissioned the Signaling and Control system, the Communication systems as well as the SCADA system. The line connects 62 km, including 43 km on the Asian-side of the peninsula and 19 km on the European-side, to the 14 km of tunnel under the Bosphorus Strait. The line will have an overall length of 76 kilometers and allows a mixed commuter, intercity and freight service for the metropolitan area of Istanbul as well as the integration of the Gebze-Halkali section in the Ankara-Istanbul high-speed corridor, providing greater availability to those crossing continents. More than 75,000 passengers per hour at a two-minute interval during peak travel times are finding their commutes more efficient.
Press Release | 13. Mar 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Flexible soft motor starts - New sizes and additional communication modules extend the scope of soft starter applications
News | 13. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens delivers additional regional trains to Austrian Federal Railways

    24 "ÖBB Cityjet" Desiro ML trains
    Attractive passenger comfort and increased value sustainability over the entire lifecycle

Austrian Federal Railways (ÖBB) has ordered an additional 24 Desiro ML regional trains from Siemens, bringing the total number of ordered trains to 189. Delivery of the new trains, which will operate under the name "Cityjet," is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2020. The three-car electric trainsets will be used as regional trains (S-Bahn) in eastern Austria. The trains will be produced at the Siemens Mobility plants in Krefeld, Germany, and Graz, Austria, and final assembly will take place at ÖBB's Technical Services factory in Jedlersdorf, Austria.
Press Release | 12. Mar 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens is the leader in European patent applications

    No. 1 in the European Patent Office's application rankings for 2018
    More than 25 percent of patent applications in the area of digitalization
    7,300 inventions worldwide in fiscal 2018 – 33 inventions per day 

Siemens submitted more patent applications than any other company in Europe in 2018, thus advancing to first place in the European Patent Office's application rankings. With 2,493 patent applications, Siemens relegated last year's leader, Huawei, to second place, followed by Samsung and LG. In 2017, Siemens had taken second place. The last time the company was ranked No. 1 in Europe was in 2011. More than 25 percent of the patents are in the areas of Industry 4.0 and digitalization, where Siemens submitted considerably more applications for intellectual property rights than in the prior year. The company also reported a substantial increase in the areas of artificial intelligence and cybersecurity.
Press Release | 12. Mar 2019 | Siemens AG
Safety on the pistes - Controlled remote detonation of avalanches safeguarded with Siemens technology
News | 11. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens at ISH 2019
At ISH, the leading international trade show for building, energy and air conditioning technology and renewable energy sources that took place in March 2019 in Frankfurt, Germany, Siemens did exhibit its current portfolio of products, systems and solutions for energy-efficient rooms and buildings as well as heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) technology.
Frankfurt am Main | 10. Mar 2019 - 14. Mar 2019 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Producing parts efficiently - Siemens PLM Software production simulation increases throughput
News | 08. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens opens MindSphere Application Center in India

    Designed to optimize customers' asset value and performance for coal and steam-based power plants
    Siemens experts will work alongside customers to co-create solutions that help deliver higher efficiency, reliability and flexibility in operations

Siemens experts will work alongside customers to co-create solutions that help deliver higher efficiency, reliability and flexibility in operationsSiemens has officially opened its new MindSphere Application Center in India. The facility is a state-of-the-art digitalized technology center, supported by Siemens’ MindSphere, an open, cloud-based IoT operating system that lets customers connect machines and physical infrastructure to the digital world and their thermodynamic digital twins. 
Feature | 06. Mar 2019 | Gas and Power
Square, practical, sustainable - Environmentally friendly chocolate production with energy management from Siemens
News | 06. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
FIA and Siemens partner to improve Rally spectator safety

    Project aims to improve safety for spectators and drivers at FIA sanctioned Rally events
    Solutions include advanced sensor fusion and image classification; connected vehicle technology; extensive 3D modeling and pre-race simulation of vehicles, sensor networks
    Learnings from project will benefit pedestrian safety in urban environments

The Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) and Siemens today announced the start of a project aimed at improving the safety of spectators and drivers at Rally events around the world.
Press Release | 06. Mar 2019 | Siemens AG
New residual current breakers with overload save 50 percent space in electric distribution boards
The new 5SV1 RCBOs from Siemens for the first time combine residual current and overload protection in one modular width (MW). The compact devices protect people from dangerous electrical shots and at the same time prevent overcurrent damage to cables, along with the failure of electrical systems and loads in buildings, infrastructure and industry. In the event of a fault, they safely and reliably disconnect all circuits from the network. Compared to conventional devices, the 5SV1 RCBOs require only half the space. This enables more protection devices to be installed in a distributor and existing installations to be easily expanded with new protection functions in a space-saving solution. The protection devices can also be connected in a 5SM6 AFD unit block – thus offering personal, line and preventive fire protection in only two MWs.
Press Release | 05. Mar 2019 |
Production Network 4.0 - Siemens industrial communications provide reliable and secure network infrastructure
News | 04. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to acquire KACO new energy GmbH

    KACO new energy is one of the leading manufacturers of energy-related power electronics
    Siemens further strengthens its competence in decentralized energy
    KACO new energy will be integrated in the new Smart Infrastructure Operating Company 

Siemens has today announced plans to acquire the string inverter business of the KACO new energy GmbH, one of the leading manufacturers of energy-related power electronics, for an undisclosed sum. The project development and EPC activities are not part of the acquisition. The closing of the transaction is subject to regulatory approval and expected in the first half of 2019.
Press Release | 01. Mar 2019 |
Laminated glass in small batches - Glass manufacturer relies on Siemens digitalization solutions for flexible production
News | 01. Mar 2019 | Digital Industries
Sidrive IQ: Greater efficiency with Simotics Connect 400 connectivity module

    Size AH100 to AH450 low-voltage motors can be retrofitted in future with the Simotics Connect 400 connectivity module
    Simotics Connect 400 enables motor operating data to be sent to cloud-based Sidrive IQ Fleet App without any structural modification
    Regular evaluation improves efficiency, optimizes serviceability and makes for an extended service life

In future, it will be possible for existing motors operating in the field to be retrofitted with the Simotics Connect 400 connectivity module from Siemens. This will allow size AH100 to AH450 low-voltage motors operated directly from the mains to transmit operating data straight to the cloud-based Sidrive IQ Fleet App without the need for any structural modifications. Regular data analysis allows plant operators to quickly and efficiently oversee the operational status of their drive systems and plan a servicing schedule based on actual requirement. This not only improves efficiency, but also optimizes serviceability and extends service life. Typical applications requiring monitored low-voltage motors include pumps, fans and compressors.
Press Release | 28. Feb 2019 |
Simple production changeover - Glass industry company relies on partnership with Siemens for automation solutions
News | 27. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens joins Eco Innovation Alliance as a technology partner

    Leading alliance for sustainable innovations in the energy sector
    Siemens is helping startups and new companies in the green economy develop their solutions and business models 

Siemens has joined the Eco Innovation Alliance (EIA) as a technology partner. The alliance of more than 60 startups and innovation companies in the green economy is aimed at strengthening environmental innovations that drive ecological modernization efforts and encourage direct dialog between newly formed companies and policymakers. Siemens is supporting green economy enterprises by providing proven hardware and software solutions, which are intended to give EIA members a solid foundation on which they can built their own applications and business models.
Press Release | 26. Feb 2019 |
Data-driven insights for small and medium data centers

    Data Center Hub is a cloud-based monitoring software for small to medium-sized data centers
    Easy deployment, intuitive user interface, vendor-agnostic
    Enables fast reaction, cost optimization, risk mitigation, and effective resource planning 

The new Data Center Hub monitoring software complements the Siemens portfolio for data centers, enabling effective operation of small to medium-sized colocation and enterprise data centers. Data Center Hub is a cloud-based application that provides live monitoring, automated analysis and advanced reporting of historical infrastructure performance data, using state of the art IoT connectivity and analytics. It combines and analyzes data from field devices and external information sources, for instance weather data, to provide actionable insights to all user roles. Data center facility and IT managers, as well as technical personnel and management get full visibility of key performance indicators such as power and cooling efficiency. Data Center Hub provides them with site transparency at any time and on any device – smartphone, tablet or PC – to better manage their operations.
Press Release | 25. Feb 2019 |
New on-metal label convinces with compact design and large memory
News | 25. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Safe and robust - Ideal combination of technology and design using components from Siemens
News | 22. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility's pilot project shows how to reduce air pollution hotspots in Munich

    Siemens Mobility, ryd and Hawa Dawa use environmental and vehicle data to optimize traffic
    Pilot proves managing traffic at an individual level can reduce air pollution hotspots
    35 to 40 percent of drivers took more eco-friendly alternative routes

Siemens Mobility, ryd (a platform by ThinxNet), and Hawa Dawa completed a real-world pilot project showcasing that individual vehicle drivers can be influenced to take an alternative route and air pollution hotspots can subsequently be reduced. The pilot shows an alternative approach to general city tolling, which could also be combined with public transit to enhance intermodal mobility.
Press Release | 22. Feb 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens is launching a new battery storage for private homes
With the Junelight Smart Battery, Siemens is offering its first battery storage specially geared to the requirements in private homes for the storage and use of self-generated energy. The lithium-ion storage combines functions for intelligent and safe energy management and a modern design. Homeowners can use it to maximize the share of their self-generated energy, e.g. from photovoltaic systems, for their own consumption, to minimize their energy procurement costs and to make a long-term contribution towards the reduction of CO2 emissions. The Junelight Smart Battery coordinates the predictive charging and discharging procedures depending on the weather-related yield forecast of the photovoltaic system and the individual consumption profile of the household. Using the mobile Junelight Smart App, all energy flows – from production, through storage, right down to consumption and grid in-feed – can always be monitored in real time. The storage capacity can be flexibly adapted to individual needs at any time, encompassing up to 19.8 kilowatt hours (kWh). The Junelight Smart Battery is now available in Germany and will be launched in Austria in April 2019.
Press Release | 21. Feb 2019 |
Lightweight construction made easy - Siemens technology automates modern production line for lightweight construction materials
News | 20. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens provides multi-modular E-House solution for chemical complex in Hungary

    Siemens to deliver seven customized multi-modular E-House substations equipped with medium- and low-voltage systems
    Providing electric power to operate a petrochemical complex
    Cost- and time-saving plug-and-play solution

Siemens received one of its largest single orders for E-Houses from the technology group thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions. Seven modular power distribution substations will ensure the power supply for the operation of a new chemical complex of the MOL Group, a leading international oil and gas company from Hungary. The E-Houses will be installed in Tiszaújváros, Northeast of Budapest, where thyssenkrupp will construct a petrochemical complex of roughly 400,000 square meters on an area near to existing industrial facilities. The plant is scheduled to go into operation in 2021 and will produce important intermediates for various industries in Central and Eastern Europe.
Press Release | 19. Feb 2019 |
Siemens Mobility to modernize Medellín, Colombia metro signaling

    Contract value of €42 million
    Modernization and automation of Line A and Patio de Bello depot
    Systems will be operational in 2021

Siemens Mobility will install its advanced rail signaling technology on line A of the Medellín, Colombia metro and the Patio de Bello depot that serves the metro network. The €42 million contract will include the system design, implementation and certification for the wayside system. In addition, it will optimize the interaction between the existing onboard system with the wayside system infrastructure. The project modernizes the technology installed more than 20 years ago for the city's first metro line. When completed in 2021, the new system will provide greater availability to passengers.
Press Release | 19. Feb 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries signs LoI to join Charter of Trust for cybersecurity

    Mitsubishi Heavy Industries to become the Charter's first Asian member company
    Letter of Intent signed, membership to be finalized by September 2019 

Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) signed a letter of intent to join the Charter of Trust for cybersecurity in Tokyo today, expanding the Charter's reach into Asia. The company's membership is expected to be finalized by the end of September 2019. As the 17th Charter partner, MHI will be the first Asian company to join the global cybersecurity initiative.
Press Release | 19. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens showcases smart solutions for industry-specific implementation of Industrie 4.0

    This year's trade fair slogan: "Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further!"
    Setting course for the factory and process automation of the future
    Integrated energy solutions for digital enterprises

Siemens will be placing smart solutions for the industry-specific implementation of Industrie 4.0 at the heart of its Hannover Messe 2019 presentation under the banner "Digital Enterprise – Thinking industry further!". Over an exhibition space of around 4,000 square meters in Hall 9, Siemens will be showcasing these solutions with an array of new additions to its Digital Enterprise offering designed to enable the digital transformation of the discrete and process industries. By integrating future technologies into its portfolio, Siemens is offering users new and far more extensive scope for leveraging the exponential growth in industrial data. Its offering ranges from the use of artificial intelligence and edge computing through to the factory and process automation of the future. Siemens will also be showcasing integrated energy solutions for network operators and digital enterprises. This comprehensive portfolio allows industrial enterprises of all sizes and sectors to achieve the improved flexibility and productivity they need to address the growing challenges posed by mass customization.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG
Versatile, seamless across the system, safety integrated: new servo drive system for protective extra-low voltage range

    New Simatic Micro-Drive servo drive system for the protectiveextra-low voltage range system (under 60VDC) with scope for individual combination 
    Certified system enabling simple PLC connection
    Easy commissioning and servicing using the TIA Portal
    Fast, reliable communication over Profinet
    Safety Integrated with new SLT (Safely Limited Torque) function

Siemens is extending its drive portfolio in the safety extra-low voltage range for DC/EC motors with 24 to 48 V by introducing a new servo drive system known as the Simatic Micro-Drive. The new system offers scope for individual combination with UL-certified components and comprises the PDC (Profidrive Control) servo converter in conjunction with a flexible range of motors and connecting cables. Simple connection to Simatic controllers helps significantly reduce the engineering workload, while integration into Siemens automation technology over the TIA Portal makes for simple commissioning and servicing. Communication takes place over Profinet IRT using Profisafe und Profidrive profiles. The new Saftey Integrated function SLT (Safely Limited Torque) limits torque by monitoring motor current in running operation.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2019 |
Siemens H-class gas turbines achieve one million operating hours
The Siemens H-class turbine has been on the market for nearly a decade and has now achieved a significant milestone by exceeding one-million fired hours of commercial operation. With 70 turbines in operation on four continents and almost 100 machines sold, the SGT-8000H is the market leader in its class and delivers a top performance that's been setting benchmarks throughout the industry. Since its launch, the output rating of the Siemens SGT5-8000H gas turbine has grown from 375 megawatt (MW) to 450 MW, with improvements in efficiency to over 61 percent in combined cycle operation. With ongoing updates and the technology download from the HL-class gas turbines, Siemens will continue to enhance its H-class turbine and fleet.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2019 |
Smart cookie production solution - Bakery production line automated with Siemens technology
News | 18. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens updates NX Software with Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning to increase productivity

    Latest release of NX software enhanced with new capabilities that leverage machine learning and artificial intelligence technology to create user interfaces based on expected tasks to increase user adoption and productivity
    Siemens' Digital Innovation Platform enhanced with machine learning-driven user-interface solutions to enhance design process improvement

Siemens announced today an expansion of the Digital Innovation Platform with the introduction of the latest version of NX™ software, which has been enhanced with machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities. These new features can predict next steps and update the user interface to help users more efficiently use software to increase productivity. The ability to automatically adapt the user interface to meet the needs of different types of users across multiple departments can result in higher adoption rates, leading to a higher-quality computer-aided technology (CAx) system and the creation of a more robust digital twin.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2019 |
Siemens to showcase new applications for machine-level edge computing

    Edge application Analyze MyWorkpiece /Capture enables data capturing around every aspect of workpiece machining
    Analyze MyWorkpiece /Toolpath designed for workpiece data visualization and analysis
    Edge application Analyze MyMachine /Condition determines the condition of machine tools

As part of Siemens Industrial Edge, Siemens will be showcasing new applications for Sinumerik Edge, the machine-level platform specifically targeting the machine tool industry, at the Hannover Messe 2019. Visitors to the show will have the chance to experience the edge application Analyze MyWorkpiece /Capture, which enables real-time data surrounding every aspect of workpiece machining to be recorded. Coordinated to work with this application is the CNC shopfloor management application Analyze MyWorkpiece /Toolpath, which allows the acquired data to be visualized and analyzed. Siemens will also be showcasing an edge application in the field of machine condition monitoring in the form of its new Analyze MyMachine /Condition.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2019 |
Siemens and Festo integrate Multi-Carrier-System into Bosch Rexroth transfer system

    Collaboration on new overall system
    More flexible, more efficient production processes

Siemens and Festo are presenting an innovative linear motor drive and control concept, designed to offer flexible and efficient high-performance solutions for short-cycle applications. The Multi-Carrier-System (MCS) from Siemens and Festo has been integrated into the Rexroth TS 2plus transfer system, thus adding the modular MCS to Bosch Rexroth's versatile building-block system based on standardized units. The advantages of the existing systems have been merged, and users are free to combine them in almost any way they wish to achieve maximum flexibility in their processes. This opens up new possibilities in assembly technology or in battery production, for example.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2019 |
Press conference ahead of the Hannover Messe 2019
The Hannover Messe will be opening its doors once again at the beginning of April this year to welcome trade visitors from around the world. It is our great pleasure to invite you to the International Siemens Press Conference held in advance of the show: At this press conference CEOs will give you an insight into technological developments and innovations which Siemens will be presenting at Hanover for the manufacturing and process industries at the Hannover Messe. This includes the integration of future technologies such as artificial intelligence, edge computing or additive manufacturing as well as digital solutions for energy supply, and the future of process automation.
Herzogenaurach | 18. Feb 2019 - 18. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG Save the date
New generation of high-end industrial PCs – high performance and flexibility in the industrial environment

    First rack, box and panel PCs with Xeon, Core i7, Core i5, Core i3 and 8th generation Celeron processors from Intel
    High level of data and system availability in the 19" rack or control cabinet, or directly on the machine
    Maximum expandability for flexible integration into new and existing systems

Siemens has added a new generation of high-end IPCs to its portfolio of industrial PCs: The four new Simatic IPC627E, 677E, 647E and 847E units are equipped with the latest technology – 8th generation Intel processors and fast UHD-onboard-graphics. They are available as rack, box or panel PCs. The newly developed IPCs with their enhanced enclosure concept facilitate the processing and storage of large volumes of data as well as sophisticated visualization tasks. They are suitable for use both in control rooms or as machine-level systems in data-intensive processes – wherever fast measuring, open-loop and closed-loop control tasks need to be implemented or where visualization solutions with up to 6 monitors are required. The enclosure concept is compatible with its predecessors, so the IPCs can be installed in existing systems with no additional effort required.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2019 |
New digital service optimizes the maintenance of machines and plants

    Lifecycle Management Suite for optimal maintenance management
    Greater transparency of service activities and system status
    Maintenance Process optimization reduces maintenance costs

Siemens has expanded its Digital Enterprise portfolio to include a new digital service for optimizing plant maintenance. The Lifecycle Management Suite facilitates the consistent planning, execution and documentation of all service activities. It is even possible to use the cloud-based system from mobile terminals, and so immediately document activities in the plant. Furthermore, those responsible for maintenance always have an up-to-date and transparent overview of all service activities and plant states. This enables maintenance to be planned even more efficiently, and maintenance costs to be reduced.
Press Release | 18. Feb 2019 |
Compact and powerful - Machining center integrates glass processing steps with Siemens automation
News | 15. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
The Charter of Trust takes a major step forward to advance cybersecurity

    BSI German Federal Office for Information Security, CCN National Cryptologic Center and Graz University of Technology in Austria join charter as associate partners
    Companies commit to driving cybersecurity across global supply chains
    Important signals set at global, European and national political levels
    Ambitious targets set in 2019: Focusing on advancing "Cybersecurity by Default" and "Education" topics

At the Munich Security Conference in February 2018, nine organizations signed the world's first joint charter for greater cybersecurity. A year on, the Charter of Trust has grown to 16 members. In addition to Siemens and the Munich Security Conference, the signatories include AES, Airbus, Allianz, Atos, Cisco, Daimler, Dell Technologies, Deutsche Telekom, Enel, IBM, NXP, SGS, Total and TÜV Süd. Now, the Charter of Trust welcomes two government authorities to its ranks as associate members for the very first time: the BSI German Federal Office for Information Security, which is one of the most relevant institutions for cybersecurity experts and the CCN National Cryptologic Center of Spain. CCN is an agency of the Spanish State annexed to the National Intelligence Center. In addition, the Graz University of Technology in Austria will be joining the charter as an associate member. The team there focuses on cybersecurity research and for instance was one of the teams that discovered the IT vulnerabilities "Meltdown" and "Spectre". The associate partner is a new format, through which the Charter opens up for important government representatives, universities and think tanks for cooperation. A benefit to such organizations is that they can cooperate on specific projects without having to become full members with all rights and duties.
Press Release | 15. Feb 2019 |
Siemens establishes binding cybersecurity requirements for suppliers

    Minimum requirements for new suppliers
    New network against hacker attacks: Siemens sets up cyberorganization

New Siemens suppliers must comply with minimum binding cybersecurity requirements, which will be introduced step-by-step starting on February 15, 2019, and anchored in a separate, binding clause in all new contracts. These requirements will apply primarily to suppliers of security-critical components such as software, processors and electronic components for certain types of control units. Existing suppliers who do not yet comply with the requirements are to implement them gradually. The goal is to better protect the digital supply chain against hacker attacks. In this regard, Siemens is following the course laid down by the Charter of Trust for cybersecurity. The requirements stipulate, for example, that suppliers must integrate special standards, processes and methods into their products and services. The reason: to prevent vulnerabilities and malicious codes at suppliers – and thus in Siemens products as well. In the future, suppliers themselves must, for example, perform security reviews, conduct tests and take corrective action on a regular basis. Siemens is making these requirements mandatory for its own activities as well.
Press Release | 15. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG
powermanager power monitoring software with direct cloud connection
With the new version of the powermanager power monitoring software, power data can now be directly transferred into open, cloud-based IoT operating systems such as MindSphere. The software is part of the Sentron portfolio from Siemens for energy management in industrial plants and buildings, and assists companies in boosting their energy efficiency and availability. It displays status information and electrical characteristics for complete plants and systems as well as individual devices in a clearly-arranged dashboard and analyzes energy flows. This allows for derivation of optimization measures for energy efficiency and availability and for quick pinpointing of faults in the plants. The integration of data in cloud systems enables the storage, processing and the cross-site analysis of large volumes of data. The power monitoring software is optimally suited for small to medium-sized companies seeking to implement digital energy management. The investment costs are low and can be quickly amortized through savings potential. The new version of the powermanager will be presented at Hannover Messe 2019 and is available from May 2019.
Press Release | 14. Feb 2019 |
Siemens presents new form of data transmission for busbar trunking systems

    Powerline technology added to Sivacon 8PS busbar trunking systems
    Current and data are transmitted in parallel via the conductors
    Additional data cables and complex cabling are no longer needed 

At this year's Hannover Messe trade fair, Siemens will present new functionality for the BD2, LD, and LI busbar trunking systems from the Sivacon 8PS portfolio. In the future the powerline technology will allow busbars to transmit not only current but also data. The company is thus making another contribution to increased flexibility, transparency, and efficiency for power distribution in the digital age.
Press Release | 14. Feb 2019 |
High-tech for modern manufacturing - Siemens equips own assembly line in battery module factory with modern technology
News | 14. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens presents solutions for the digital transformation of the intralogistics sector

    This year’s trade fair slogan: Digitalization in Intralogistics – Implement now! 
    Implementation of the Digital Enterprise portfolio for machine builders and operators throughout the value chain in intralogistics
    Highlights: AGVs (automatic guided vehicles), storage and retrieval machine concepts, and localization systems

From February 19 - 21, 2019, Siemens will be showcasing digitalization, automation and drive solutions for logistics processes at Logimat, the international trade fair for intralogistics solutions. Under the banner "Digitalization in Intralogistics – Implement now!" in Hall 3, Booth D11, Siemens will be demonstrating how its Digital Enterprise portfolio successfully facilitates digital transformation in intralogistics for both machine builders and operators. The focus is on automation and drive concepts for conveyor technology, storage and retrieval machines, and automatic guided vehicles (AGVs) as well as the offer for single-source, turn-key solutions and sorting solutions for post, parcel, luggage, and cargo. Businesses are therefore able to extend the digitalization process at any point along the value chain of an intralogistics system on a step-by-step basis and optimize the individual process steps, moving from the machine and system concept, through engineering and commissioning, to actual operation and service. This holistic approach from Siemens makes it the only company in the intralogistics sector which is capable of consistently mapping the actual machine builder’s and operator’s process chain in the virtual environment.
Press Release | 14. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Motion monitoring in the digital age - New, versatile motion failure alarm (MFA) facilitates commissioning and configuration
News | 13. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to maintain and digitalize Shuweihat S2 power plant in Abu Dhabi

    18-year service agreement for Shuweihat S2 IWPP in Abu Dhabi
    Digital services and extended intervals for optimized maintenance cost
    Comprehensive cybersecurity solutions to reduce cyber threats 

Siemens today announced it has signed an extension of a multi-year maintenance service agreement with Shuweihat S2 Operation and Maintenance Company (S2O&M). Under terms of the contract, Siemens will support the 1,500 megawatt (MW) combined-cycle power and water plant, Shuweihat S2 IWPP (Independent Water and Power Plant), in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. With the new 18-year extension, Siemens will also deploy products from its Omnivise digital services portfolio including cybersecurity solutions to help improve asset visibility, reliability and availability.
Press Release | 12. Feb 2019 |
New IoT data platform facilitates entry into cloud-based energy management
With the 7KN powercenter3000 IoT data platform, Siemens is expanding its digitalization solutions for electrical power distribution in industry, infrastructure and buildings. Thanks to the intelligent data collector, power and system data from up to 40 connected measuring and protection devices can be collected and transmitted, among other destinations, to local energy management systems or directly into open, cloud-based IoT operating systems such as MindSphere. The data is pre-processed and bundled in packets, which reduces the transmission volume. The processing, visualization and evaluation of the data occur using an integrated Web interface, the powermanager power monitoring software or special cloud applications. The 7KN powercenter3000 enables even small and medium-sized companies a quick, flexible and economical introduction into cloud-based energy management. Thanks to the systematic detection and analysis of data, operations become more energy efficient and fail-safe. The expansion of existing power monitoring systems with a cloud connection is easily possible at any time. The IoT data platform 7KN powercenter3000, will be showcased for the first time at the Hannover Messe 2019 and is available starting in June 2019.
Press Release | 12. Feb 2019 |
Siemens Mobility delivers rail electrification for two metro lines in Singapore

    Siemens Mobility electrifies extension of the Circle Line Stage 6 and the North East Line
    Third order for Siemens Mobility in Singapore within one year
    Order worth around €70 million

Siemens Mobility has been commissioned by Singapore’s Land Transport Authority with the electrification of the Circle Line Stage 6 and the North East Line extension (NELe) in Singapore. The order is worth around €70 million and includes delivery of the rail electrification system (direct and alternating current) as well as the overhead power lines for the NELe.
Press Release | 11. Feb 2019 | Siemens Mobility
When Simatic mixes cocktails - Allgäu inventors develop automatic cocktail machine using Siemens technology
MediaService Industries Online: Markus Settele and his mechanical engineer friend Paul Haggenmüller from Allgäu have invented the so-called "Cocktailophant" – a mobile cocktail machine. The fully automatic "Cocktailophant" is currently capable of mixing cocktails from 17 ingredients in just five seconds. A controller from the Siemens portfolio is responsible for ensuring each cocktail corresponds precisely to the saved recipe. A Simatic controller currently mixes alcoholic and non-alcoholic cocktails using 26 stored recipes. All the bartender has to do is select the cocktail requested from the Siemens touch panel. Apart from the rapid mixing speed, the Siemens automation technology also ensures each drink is always mixed to the precise recipe and is therefore able to serve cocktails to up to 4,000 guests a day or 12,000 guests over a weekend.
News | 11. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
A jump-start for start-ups - Siemens supports fledgling companies with free, comprehensive software package
News | 08. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Alstom regret European Commission's decision to prohibit combination of their mobility businesses
The European Commission has announced today its decision to prohibit the proposed combination of the Siemens and Alstom mobility businesses. As a result of this prohibition, the merger will not proceed.
Press Release | 06. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG
Breaking totally new ground - Bio-manufacturing with Siemens technology enables production of polymer from biomass
News | 06. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Planned combination of the mobility businesses of Siemens and Alstom
On September 26, 2017 Siemens and Alstom have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to combine Siemens' mobility business, including its rail traction drives business, with Alstom. The transaction brings together two innovative players of the railway market with unique customer value and operational potential. The two businesses are largely complementary in terms of activities and geographies. Siemens will receive newly issued shares in the combined company representing 50 percent of Alstom's share capital on a fully diluted basis.On February 6, 2019 the European Commission has announced its decision to prohibit the proposed combination of the Siemens and Alstom mobility businesses. As a result of this prohibition, the merger will not proceed. Siemens and Alstom regret that the remedies they offered, including recent improvements, have been considered insufficient by the EU Commission.
Feature | 05. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG, Siemens Mobility
Inauguration of the new Siemens Campus in Zug
The Siemens Zug campus features a new office building with 1,000 work spaces and a newly constructed production building. The Siemens Zug campus is one of the first new projects to use Building Information Modeling (BIM) for design and construction. The campus complex is equipped with building automation, security and fire safety technology from Siemens BT and particular emphasis was placed on sustainability and energy efficiency of the buildings.
Feature | 05. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure
Siemens to show comprehensive portfolio for smart buildings

    Focus on smart buildings and cloud-connected products and systems
    New version of the Desigo CC integrated building management platform
    Intelligent Valve: self-optimizing, dynamic valves with cloud connection

At ISH 2019, the leading international trade show for building, energy and air conditioning technology and renewable energies, the Siemens Building Technologies Division will present numerous innovations from its product and systems portfolio, as well as new digital services for customers. These portfolio additions from Building Technologies will enhance smart buildings, link products and building management systems to the cloud, connect disciplines, and make data available from anywhere and at any time. Building Technologies' extensive range of reliable and accurate building control products, multi-disciplinary building management systems and software offerings, all of which are easy to adapt to individual applications, are the foundation for digitalized buildings. As the leading smart building company, Building Technologies helps create more user-friendly and efficient buildings by turning data into actionable insights. Making buildings comfortable, safe and efficient remains the overall goal of Building Technologies' "Creating Perfect Places" initiative.
Press Release | 05. Feb 2019 |
Houston, Texas orders 14 light rail vehicles to meet future ridership needs

    S70 low-floor light rail vehicles
    After delivery, Houston will have 51 Siemens Mobility vehicles

Siemens Mobility has been awarded a contract from the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO) for 14 light rail vehicles that will operate in Houston, Texas. This marks Houston METRO's third order for Siemens Mobility vehicles, which will bring the total number in Houston to 51. The S70 low-floor light rail vehicles will supplement the vehicles currently servicing the city's three light-rail lines, which account for nearly two million trips per month. This will ensure the system's reliability, efficiency and passenger experience.
Press Release | 05. Feb 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens launches Fund for the Future to shape structural transformation in Germany
The Fund for the Future that Siemens and the company’s Central Works Council agreed to establish in May 2018 is now available to finance qualification projects in Germany. Until the end of fiscal 2022, Siemens will provide up to €100 million for such projects, in addition to the company’s regular annual budget of around €500 million for training and continuing education, thereof €290 million in Germany. The Fund for the Future is a key element with which Siemens and the Central Works Council are shaping the structural transformation of today’s economy – a transformation that is changing the working world to an unimaginable degree. Siemens, the company's Central Works Council and the IG Metall labor union agreed on a Future Pact in May 2018. This pact, which includes the Fund for the Future, established the main framework for addressing the structural transformation now taking place in Germany.
Feature | 04. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens launches Fund for the Future to shape structural transformation in Germany

    Effective immediately, employees in Germany can propose concrete qualification projects
    Up to €100 million for qualification measures, especially in future-oriented professional fields
    New learning culture: a willingness to learn completely new things

The Fund for the Future that Siemens and the company’s Central Works Council agreed to establish in May 2018 is now available to finance qualification projects in Germany. Until the end of fiscal 2022, Siemens will provide up to €100 million for such projects, in addition to the company’s regular annual budget of around €500 million for training and continuing education, thereof €290 million in Germany. The Fund for the Future is a key element with which Siemens and the Central Works Council are shaping the structural transformation of today’s economy – a transformation that is changing the working world to an unimaginable degree.
Press Release | 04. Feb 2019 | Siemens AG
Faster results with a digital twin - Business uses digital image for the first time during stacker development
News | 04. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
A clean solution - Biological waste water treatment using regenerated activated carbon saves disposal costs
News | 01. Feb 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens technology stabilizes power grid in Germany's Rhine-Main area

    State-of-the-art reactive power compensation systems from Siemens are supporting the power supply for the greater Frankfurt area.
    The transmission systems for grid operator Amprion have been successfully running in test operation since the end of December 2018.

Commissioned by grid operator Amprion, Siemens built two reactive power compensation systems for the important Kriftel power grid node: a mechanically switched capacitor with damping network (MSCDN) and a power-electronic static synchronous compensator (STATCOM). The systems have been running successfully in test operation since December 2018. They're able to dynamically, rapidly, and flexibly increase or decrease the grid voltage on demand, which is necessary to keep the grid stable despite the increase in fluctuating power supplies from renewable and distributed energy sources. At the same time, the system will help prevent gaps in supply due to large power plant shutdowns. The Kriftel substation between Frankfurt and Wiesbaden controls power distribution for the Greater Frankfurt Area and its almost six million inhabitants.
Press Release | 31. Jan 2019 |
56 regional trains for Augsburg rail networks

    Operator is Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH
    44 Mireo multiple-unit and twelve Desiro HC double-decker trainsets
    Order worth around €400 million
    Higher capacity and significantly enhanced passenger comfort

Operator Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH has commissioned Siemens Mobility to deliver 56 regional multiple-unit trainsets. The trains are planned for use on the electrified routes of the "Augsburg rail networks" in southwestern Bavaria. A total of 44 three-car Mireo electric trainsets and twelve five-car Desiro HC electric double-decker trains are to be delivered. Both types of trains can be combined, enabling the operator to flexibly adapt to changing passenger demand. The order is worth around €400 million. Passenger service with the new trains is scheduled to begin with the change of the timetable in December 2022.
Press Release | 31. Jan 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Celebrating anniversary in style - Traditional glass manufacturer relies on Siemens automation in production
News | 30. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
First Quarter Results FY 2019
We released our first quarter results for fiscal year 2019 on January 30, 2019. The Press Conference and the Analyst Call were broadcast live. 
Munich | 30. Jan 2019 - 30. Jan 2019 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2019
 Siemens held its Annual Shareholders' Meeting at the Olympiahalle in Munich on January 30, 2019. 
| 30. Jan 2019 - 30. Jan 2019 | Siemens AG Save the date
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q1 FY 2019: Strong orders continue into the new fiscal year

    Orders increased 13% on a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, and revenue grew 2% compared to Q1 FY 2018
    On a nominal basis, orders rose 12%, to €25.2 billion and revenue was up 1%, to €20.1 billion; the book-to-bill ratio was 1.25
    Adjusted EBITA for Industrial Business was lower, at €2.1 billion, due mainly to a decline in Power and Gas; Industrial Business Adjusted EBITA margin at 10.2%, held back by severance charges amounting to 0.4 percentage points
    Net income came in at €1.1 billion, resulting in basic EPS of €1.26, which was burdened by €0.08 from severance charges; the change year-over-year is due to two substantial positive factors outside of Industrial Business in the prior-year period: a gain from the sale of shares in OSRAM Licht AG and sharply lower income tax expenses related to U.S. tax reform

"Our continued high order growth underlines the customer confidence in the performance of our company. There is still much to do before we achieve industry-leading margins in all our businesses."
Press Release | 30. Jan 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens to pay dividend of €3.80 per share

    Annual Shareholders' Meeting ratifies acts of Managing and Supervisory Boards by large majorities

At today's 53rd ordinary Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens AG, shareholders approved the distribution of a dividend of €3.80 per share for fiscal 2018, as proposed by the Managing and Supervisory Boards. The dividend for fiscal 2018 was thus €0.10 higher than the dividend for fiscal 2017. The company has now increased its dividend five years in a row.
Press Release | 30. Jan 2019 | Siemens AG
Siemens awarded its biggest order in Oman to develop large power and water project

    Marks the biggest contract for Siemens in Oman and one of the longest service agreements in the oil and gas sector
    Complements the country's economic diversification plans

Highlighting its commitment to supporting Oman in meeting its growing power needs, Siemens has received an order to supply the Duqm Integrated Power and Water project (DIPWP) with gas and steam turbines, long-term power generation services and digital solutions. The total order volume of the contract is in the range of 200 million euros, representing Siemens' largest contract in the Sultanate of Oman. Spanning a period of 25 years, the service contract for the project, marks also one of the company's longest contracts in the oil and gas sector globally. Following completion of the project in 2022, DIPWP will have an installed generating capacity of 326 megawatts in combined-cycle duty and 36,000 cubic meters of desalinated water for Duqm refinery and petrochemical facilities per day.
Press Release | 29. Jan 2019 |
Maxiforja digitalizes operations with the Siemens Digital Innovation platform

    Strategic partnership between Siemens and Maxiforja helps ensure competitiveness in the development of forged products through use of the integrated digital innovation platform
    Maxiforja adopts multiple solutions to achieve increased productivity and shortened development time

News | 29. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens secures order for HL-class gas turbine in the U.S.

    Re-powering of Cooperative Energy's R.D. Morrow, Sr. Generating Station in Purvis, Mississippi
    Third order for new Siemens HL-class gas turbine
    Higher efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions
    Long-term service contract included

Siemens has secured an order in the U.S. for the re-powering of Cooperative Energy's R.D. Morrow, Sr. Generating Station facility in Purvis, Mississippi. The customer will use Siemens' cutting-edge HL gas turbine technology to re-power the facility's existing coal-powered steam turbines. This is the third order that the company has received for its new HL-class gas turbine. The natural gas-fueled combined cycle power plant will have an installed capacity of approximately 550 megawatts and will supply reliable electricity to Cooperative Energy's Member cooperatives, which serve approximately 430,000 homes and businesses across the state.
Press Release | 28. Jan 2019 |
Siemens opens advanced robotized and digitized battery module factory in Norway

    In Trondheim, 55 battery modules per shift will be assembled for the marine and offshore market in the future
    The factory includes a robotized and digitized production line with eight robot stations
    Worldwide there is a strong demand for safe and reliable battery solutions 

Together with Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg, Siemens today opened one of the world's most advanced and robotic battery module factories in Trondheim, Norway. In the future, 55 battery modules per shift will be assembled every day for the marine and offshore market. "We expect this market to grow significantly in the future. That is why we have invested in the development of safe and reliable battery solutions," says Bjørn Einar Brath, Head of Offshore Solutions at Siemens. The factory comprises a robotized and digitized production line with eight robotic stations with a capacity of up to 300 megawatt hours (MWh) per year. From unpacking the incoming production parts to testing the finished battery module, the whole factory is completely automated. One battery consists of nine battery modules, each module consists of 28 battery cells.
Press Release | 28. Jan 2019 |
Speed, synchronicity, safety - Press specialist relies on motion control and automation technology from Siemens
News | 28. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Electromobility for all - Rapid development from concept to finished electric vehicle with Siemens PLM Software
News | 25. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Leading Industry 4.0 players collaborate to help manufacturers accelerate digital transformation

    New initiative targeted to launch at Hannover Messe 2019

Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB), McKinsey & Company, SAP, Siemens and TÜV SÜD today announced a collaboration to support companies, both big and small, scale the adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies.
Press Release | 24. Jan 2019 |
Siemens partners with Canadian Utilities to research and develop the electrical grid of the future
Siemens Canada, New Brunswick Power (NB Power) and Nova Scotia Power (NSP) agreed on conducting a joint project to develop and demonstrate smart grid technology to better manage the provinces´ electricity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The overall investment for the project amounts to $92.7 CAD million (€ 60.95 million). For a joint pilot project aimed at analyzing challenges and opportunities posed by Canada's energy transition, the three partners have been awarded $35.66 M CAD (€ 23.45 million) in federal funding. The partners will research and test in real-time how the grid of the future can optimize integration of renewables, ensure stability of the grid and manage decentralized distribution in order to better manage the provinces’ electricity, potentially reduce future electricity costs for consumers and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The pilot, officially called the Smart Grid Atlantic project, is being funded in part by the Government of Canada's Strategic Innovation Fund.
Press Release | 24. Jan 2019 | Siemens AG
Punctual and reliable - Transport operator relies on Siemens locating system for optimum depot management
News | 23. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Kamstrup and Siemens to roll out large-scale smart metering project in Ireland
A Kamstrup-Siemens consortium will deliver a smart metering solution including 250,000 electricity meters, a remote reading system and a data management system to the Irish energy company ESB Networks. The project is planned for execution during 2019-2020.
Press Release | 23. Jan 2019 |
Siemens extends Teamcenter capabilities with Slack and Microsoft Teams integration
News | 22. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Reliable communication - Trouble-free production for the vehicle assembly using electrical overhead monorails and IWLAN
News | 21. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
DB Cargo and Siemens Mobility sign framework agreement for 100 multisystem locomotives

    Initial call for 40 Vectron MS locomotives
    Deliveries to begin in February 2019

Siemens Mobility and DB Cargo AG signed a framework agreement for the delivery of 100 multisystem locomotives. At the signing of the contract, DB's freight division placed an initial call for 40 Vectron multisystem locomotives. The locomotives are planned for cross-border transport in several European countries. Delivery of the locomotives will begin in February 2019 and be completed by June 2020.
Press Release | 18. Jan 2019 | Siemens Mobility
Flexible glass range - Machine builder to the glass industry relies on motion control from Siemens
News | 18. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Siemens to supply industrial gas turbines for gas processing facility in Alberta, Canada

    First application of an SGT-300 gas turbine in Canada
    Non-enclosed SGT-300 package will be used for power generation service

Siemens was recently selected to supply two SGT-300 industrial gas turbines for an established Montney producer in Alberta, Canada. The equipment order, placed by the customer's engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) firm, marks the first application of an SGT-300 turbine in Canada.
Press Release | 17. Jan 2019 |
Siemens and QPower sign service agreement extension for Ras Laffan Power Plant in Qatar

    15-year service agreement to maintain the plant's power generation units
    Full range of digital services to boost plant efficiency and reliability
    Cybersecurity solutions to analyze and monitor potential risks in real time

Building on the continued success of its energy business in Qatar, Siemens has signed an extension of a long-term service agreement with Qatar Power Company (QPOWER) to maintain and support the power generation requirements of Ras Laffan B combined-cycle power plant for an additional 15 years.
Press Release | 16. Jan 2019 |
Siemens enhances system simulation capabilities through partnership with Modelon
News | 16. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Transformation with added value - Cost-effective configuration of multi-purpose hall systems using Siemens technology
News | 14. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Manufacturing glass 365 days a year - Glass manufacturer chooses Siemens automation for production line retrofit
News | 11. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
Manufacturing glass 365 days a year - Glass manufacturer chooses Siemens automation for production line retrofit
Press Release | 11. Jan 2019 |
Encana selects Siemens to provide rotating equipment for Pipestone Processing Facility

    First North American gas processing plant application for Siemens SGT-750 turbine

Siemens was recently selected to provide one feed and sales gas train and one refrigeration compression train for Encana’s Pipestone Processing Facility in Grand Prairie, Alberta, Canada. Designed to accommodate future capacity expansion, the Pipestone Processing Facility will provide Encana with 19,000 barrels per day of net raw condensate processing capacity plus 170 million cubic feet per day of net inlet natural gas processing capacity. Keyera will own the Pipestone Processing Facility and provide processing services to Encana. The Facility will have total processing capacity of 200 million cubic feet per day and is expected to start up in 2021.
Press Release | 10. Jan 2019 |
Future-proof mining
News | 09. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
50 percent quicker manufacturing - Siemens software simplifies and automates the development process for plastic molds
News | 07. Jan 2019 | Digital Industries
50 percent quicker manufacturing - Siemens software simplifies and automates the development process for plastic molds
Press Release | 07. Jan 2019 |
Siemens Mobility secures €744M order from Amtrak in the United States

    75 Charger diesel-electric locomotives
    Includes a 20-year Technical Support Spares Supply Agreement
    Locomotives are expected to begin passenger service in the fall of 2021

Siemens Mobility has been awarded a €744 million contract to design and manufacture 75 Charger diesel-electric locomotives for Amtrak, the United States‘ National Railroad Passenger Corporation. These 75 locomotives will replace and supplement Amtrak’s aging national network diesel locomotive fleet used on long-distance and state-supported routes. It also includes a multi-year Technical Support Spares Supply Agreement (TSSSA). Delivery of the new locomotives will begin in summer, 2021, with passenger service starting in fall, 2021.
Press Release | 21. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Autonomous Stockyard Management System comes to China

    Higher performance, increased accuracy, full utilization of the stockyard area, and optimized energy consumption compared to staffed operation
    Pilot project for Jiangsu Binxin Special Steel Material Co. Ltd. is a first step towards intelligent upgrading of plants

To improve air quality in China's urban centers, part of the country's counter measures has resulted in stockyard of iron, steel and the production of other industrial activities to move to indoor facilities instead of traditional outdoor locations. To take an industry leadership role, while continuing to meet expanding market needs by increasing production capacity, the Jiangsu Binxin Special Steel Material Co. Ltd. (Binxin Steel) decided to upgrade its plant intelligence by moving to an innovative autonomous stockyard management system from Siemens. This also has the advantage of overcoming the challenge of hiring and retaining skilled workers and engineers, while simultaneously providing continuous, safe, secure, and reliable operations. This project is a first step towards upgrading of the company's plant intelligence.
Press Release | 20. Dec 2018 |
First Siemens H-class turbine in GCC to boost efficiency of UAE’s aluminum industry

    Combined cycle power plant will be most efficient in the United Arab Emirates
    H-class technology expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions per tonne of aluminum produced by seven percent at Emirates Global Aluminium’s Jebel Ali smelter 

Siemens has signed a contract to build the most efficient power plant in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), bringing the company’s H-class turbine to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) for the first time. Signed between Siemens, Dubal Holding and Mubadala Investment Company, the agreement will see the development of a highly-efficient, combined cycle power plant at Emirates Global Aluminum’s smelter in Jebel Ali, Dubai. A signing ceremony for the project was witnessed by His Excellency Eng. Suhail Mohamed Faraj Al Mazrouei, UAE Minister of Energy and Industry, His Excellency Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer, Vice-Chairman of Dubal Holding and Vice Chairman of EGA, Khaldoon Khalifa Al Mubarak, Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Mubadala Investment Company, and Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG.
Press Release | 19. Dec 2018 |
Taking a look into outer space - Schott chooses Siemens automation technology to produce mirrors for the world’s largest telescope
News | 19. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens works with Expo 2020 Dubai to create a blueprint for future smart cities

    Siemens building technologies to be integrated across the Expo 2020 Dubai site, powered by and integrated into MindSphere
    137 buildings will be connected via cloud-based energy analytics platform; one of the world's largest installations of Siemens Navigator
    Buildings in three Thematic Districts will be digitalized with smart building management system, Desigo CC
    Digitalized infrastructure will support Expo 2020 Dubai in meeting sustainability, comfort, safety and security targets

Dubai is on its way to creating one of the most connected and sustainable World Expos in history, as Siemens begins one of the world's largest installations of its building technologies at Expo 2020 Dubai. The digital solutions will connect, monitor and control buildings across the site with MindSphere, the cloud-based operating system for the Internet of Things, powering the collection and analysis of data for intelligent decision-making and actions. The smart technologies will support Expo 2020 Dubai's targets for energy efficiency, comfort, safety and security.
Press Release | 18. Dec 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens acquires non-controlling 25% share in Coelme Group

    Siemens acquires non-controlling minority ownership in Coelme Group
    Coelme Group focused on serving the European market with high-voltage disconnecting switches

Siemens and Coelme Group, an Italian-based subsidiary of Southern States LCC, one of the leading manufacturers of high voltage disconnect switches, have agreed to Siemens acquiring a non-controlling minority shareholding of 25% in Coelme Group. Ralf Christian, Siemens AG, CEO Energy Management Division, says: "The development and the flexibilization of the transmission grids are of greatest importance for achieving the climate targets. In this context, innovative high voltage disconnect switches remain an important portfolio. Our cooperation with Coelme accelerates innovations and broadens the range of offers for our customers". Coelme Group continues to operate as a standalone company, independent of Siemens. Coelme Group and Siemens will have a business relationship at Arm's-Length Principle. Closing of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions including approval by the relevant competition authority. Closing is expected to be completed in the first half of calendar year 2019.
Press Release | 17. Dec 2018 |
Efficient electric motor production - Stator manufacturer relies on motion control from Siemens
News | 17. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
Paper production 4.0 - Paper producer relies on Siemens expertise for security concept and new production line
News | 14. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility digitizes traffic in Wiesbaden

    Hesse's state capital commissions Siemens Mobility to implement Digi-V
    Intelligent infrastructure to analyze environmental and traffic data
    Environment-sensitive traffic controls reduces emissions

Hesse's state capital Wiesbaden has commissioned Siemens Mobility to implement its "Digitalization of Traffic" (DIGI-V) project, which is based on the city's "Green City Plan – Masterplan WI-Connect." The project aims to implement measures that will reduce traffic-related emissions. To achieve this, environmental and traffic data will be recorded, analysed and processed in real time.
Press Release | 14. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Research project "FastCharge": ultra-fast charging technology
The need for electromobility is growing, as is the need for an efficient charging infrastructure. As a pioneer in electromobility, Siemens has global experience, maintains a strong portfolio along the entire value chain, and plays an active role in advancing the development and standardization of charging solutions worldwide.Siemens is part of the "FastCharge" research project together with BMW Group as consortium leader, Allego GmbH, Phoenix Contact E-Mobility GmbH as well as Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG. This project is investigating the technological requirements that vehicles and infrastructure must meet in order to be able to use extremely high charging capacities. The industrial companies involved in the research project presented the latest advancements in the field of fast and convenient energy supply for electrically powered vehicles on December 12, 2018. The prototype of a charging station with a capacity of up to 450 kW was inaugurated in Jettingen-Scheppach, Bavaria. At this ultra-fast charging station, electrically powered research vehicles created as part of the project are able to demonstrate charging times of less than three minutes for the first 100 kilometres of range or 15 minutes for a full charge (10-80 % State of Charge (SOC)).The energy supply system of Siemens used in the project contains both high-power electronics for the charging connections as well as the communication interface to the electric vehicles. For the connection to the public power grid, a charging container was implemented with two charging connections for CCS-compatible vehicles. One connection has an unprecedented charging capacity of max. 450 kW while the second can deliver up to 175 kW.
Feature | 13. Dec 2018 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens offers industrialized 3D printing for complex challenges in various industries

    Opening of the new state-of-the-art 3D printing facility at Materials Solutions Ltd. in UK
    Comprehensive approach to manufacturing high-end parts for customers in challenging industries
    End-to-end digitalized 3D-printing production facility to support serial production

With the opening of the new state-of-the-art 3D printing facility at Materials Solutions Ltd. in the U.K., Siemens is continuing to drive the industrialization of additive manufacturing (AM). The investment of €30 million in the new U.K. facility enables the growth of the business by doubling the capacity of 3D-printing machines to 50 and will also increase its post-processing capabilities. Siemens is taking AM out of the traditional research laboratory into an industrialized production factory. By employing industrial methods to scale up production, Siemens can bring down the costs of AM by manufacturing high-end complex metal parts in serial production in a robust industrial environment. With an entire digital end-to-end chain, Siemens is efficiently solving complex customer challenges by producing high-end serial parts for Siemens Power and Gas and customers in the aerospace, automotive, motorsport, and other industries.
Press Release | 13. Dec 2018 |
Additive Manufacturing: Siemens uses innovative technology to produce gas turbines
Additive manufacturing has the potential to become a new key technology. For example it opens up new attractive prospects in the manufacture of gas turbines. This is why Siemens has been investing in this innovative technology right from its inception, and is now driving the industrialization and commercialization of these processes. Additive Manufacturing is a process that builds parts layer-by-layer from sliced CAD models to form solid objects. This enables highly precise solutions to be formed from powdered high-performance materials. Siemens is a pioneer in Additive Manufacturing and already uses the technology for rapid prototyping. Furthermore the company is now developing solutions ready for series-production for manufacturing gas turbine burner nozzles and repairing burner heads. Just recently Siemens achieved yet another breakthrough: the first gas turbine blades ever to be produced using Additive Manufacturing have successfully finished performance testing under full-load conditions.
Feature | 13. Dec 2018 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Matthias Rebellius appointed new CEO of Building Technologies Division

    Managing Board and Supervisory Board approve change as of January 1, 2015
    Current CEO Johannes Milde to continue serving in advisory capacity for some time to come

Siemens' Building Technologies Division will have a new CEO on January 1, 2015. Matthias Rebellius (49) is succeeding Johannes Milde (61), who is resigning as Division CEO at the end of this year. Milde will continue to support the company for some time to come.
Press Release | 13. Dec 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens Mobility awarded €650 million contract from VIA Rail Canada

    32 bi-directional trainsets offering more than 9,100 seats
    Passenger service expected to begin in 2022
    Enhanced passenger experience

Siemens Mobility has been awarded a €650 million contract in Canada to design and build the next generation of VIA Rail Canada's trainsets. This includes 32 bi-directional trainsets, with a supplemental 15-year service agreement for VIA Rail, Canada's government-owned intercity transportation operator. The new trainsets will service passengers on VIA's busiest route, the Quebec City – Windsor Corridor, which connects Canada's two largest cities, Toronto and Montreal, and spans more than 2,200 kilometers in a northeast-southwest direction. The line carried more than 4.5 million passengers in 2018, representing an increase of more than 30 percent over the past four years. The trainsets will ensure the highest level of safety while also significantly enhancing the passenger experience, with excellent ride quality including more comfortable seats, quieter cars, modern climate control and a high-performance passenger Wi-Fi and digital information system. Delivery of the trainsets will begin in 2021 and passenger service in 2022.
Press Release | 12. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens and Alstom submit remedy package to European Commission
Alstom and Siemens have jointly agreed to submit a remedy package on December 12 to the European Commission in response to its Statement of Objection of October 29. This package represents their proposal to address the Commission’s concerns while preserving the industrial and economic value of the deal.
Press Release | 12. Dec 2018 |
Perfect pistes with digitalization - "PistenBully" manufacturer relies on Siemens PLM Software for design
News | 10. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
Avenio M tram inaugurates passenger service on new Line 2 in Ulm, Germany

    All twelve trams handed over to SWU Verkehr GmbH
    First series service for multi-articulated Avenio M
    First Avenio fleet with "Siemens Tram Assistant" collision warning system

The Avenio M from Siemens Mobility has begun service on the new Line 2 in Ulm, Germany. The approximately ten-kilometer long tram line, which connects Ulm's Science City with the Kuhberg district, was officially inaugurated yesterday by SWU Verkehr GmbH. The new trams from Siemens Mobility will be used on the city's entire tram network (Lines 1 and 2).
Press Release | 09. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens closes the production management information gap with reliable solution

    Siemens Minerals Operation Management Solution eliminates information silos by integrating data at all levels, even ERP and automation
    Provides transparency of entire production process from raw materials to finished products for leading supplier to China’s stainless-steel industry
    Improves quality, efficiency, plus speed and accuracy of decision making

Minimum downtime and the optimum use of staff and resources are key to sustainable success in the minerals and mining industries. To achieve this, the Mintal Group Ferrochrome Science and Technology Co. Ltd. is closing the often-significant information gap regarding production planning, quality, production execution and material logistics that can exist between customer Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software and plant automation systems. For this, Siemens will design, engineer and commission a new production management system (PMS), based on the Siemens Minerals Operation Management Solution. With technology-based services throughout the lifecycle of an industrial plant, Siemens provides the basis for greater productivity, flexibility, and efficiency – reliably, globally and around-the-clock.
Press Release | 07. Dec 2018 |
Siemens supplies world's first lithium-ion battery solution for offshore drilling rig

    World's first drilling rig to operate a low-emission hybrid power plant using Siemens' lithium-ion energy storage solution
    Integration of BlueVault™ will reduce fuel consumption by 12 percent and CO2 emissions by 15 percent

The long-term sustainability of the offshore oil and gas sector is predicated on reducing costs and minimizing projects' environmental impacts. Drawing off its extensive experience in the electrification of marine assets, Siemens has taken a significant step on the way to helping the industry achieve those goals by supplying the world's first energy storage solution (ESS) to an offshore drilling rig.
Press Release | 07. Dec 2018 |
ICE 4 to operate on the Berlin – Munich high-speed line beginning on Sunday

    12-car trains in service on the VDE 8 (German Unity Railway Project Nr. 8)
    Nineteen ICE 4 trains under way daily in Germany as of December 9
    Trains provide substantially more capacity

With the Deutsche Bahn (DB) timetable change on December 9, 2018, the ICE 4 will inaugurate service on the high-speed line between Berlin and Munich. In addition to the ICE 3 trains operating as Sprinters along the route, the ICE 4 will make more stops along the way. Compared to the Sprinter's five intermediate stops, the ICE 4 will make eight. The new trains will connect Berlin-Gesundbrunnen, Berlin Central Station, Berlin-Südkreuz, Lutherstadt Wittenberg, Leipzig, Erfurt, Bamberg, Erlangen, Nürnberg and Munich Central Station. With the launch of ICE 4 service and additional Sprinters, there will be around 3,000 more seats available on this route every day. The new DB flagship also operates on the Cologne-Rhine-Main route, and between Hamburg and Munich, and to Stuttgart. All in all, nineteen 12-car ICE 4 trains will be in service beginning on Sunday.
Press Release | 07. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
The future of ships’ energy supply in a partnership between Siemens, VSY and Lloyd's Register

    The project: to create an environmentally friendly system for the generation of energy on board of a 65-metre yacht from Tuscan shipyard VSY
    The technology: Siemens SISHIP BlueDrive system integrated with hydrogen fuel cells from PowerCell Sweden AB and Siemens BlueVaultTM lithium-ion batteries
    The aim: efficiency and environmental sustainability

News | 07. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
Presentation of first Mireo train for the Rhine Valley

    Siemens Mobility begins extensive test program
    DB Regio to operate the Rhine Valley network as of 2020
    Profitable over the entire lifecycle with enhanced passenger comfort

The first trainset of the new Mireo regional train platform has been completed. In the coming months, a total of eight pre-production trains will be commissioned at the company's Test and Validation Center (PCW) in Wegberg-Wildenrath. Before the train is allowed to operate for the first time in Germany's rail network, an extensive test program must be completed at the PCW. In June 2020, the Mireo is scheduled to begin service in the Rhine Valley network in Southwest Germany that is operated by the DB Regio Regional Business Unit of Deutsche Bahn. DB Regio AG has ordered a total of 24 Mireo trains, the first order Siemens Mobility received for the newly developed platform.
Press Release | 06. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens wins order for its largest offshore grid connection in the UK to date

    Moray East project has a capacity of 950 MW representing Siemens' largest UK grid access project to date
    Siemens to deliver onshore substation and three offshore transformer modules (OTM®)
    After commissioning Moray East will provide enough clean energy to power almost one million UK homes

Siemens has been awarded an order to connect the Moray East offshore wind farm to the grid. Moray East is being developed by a joint venture company owned by EDP Renewables, a subsidiary of the Portuguese utility Energias de Portugal, ENGIE, a global energy and services group based in Paris, and Diamond Generation Europe Ltd., a subsidiary of Mitsubishi Corporation. The Siemens' scope of supply covers all necessary components, such as the offshore transformer modules (OTM®) which transform the output of the wind turbines from 66 kilovolts (kV) to the transmission voltage of 220 kV, as well as the onshore station which transforms the electricity into 275 kV for feeding it into the national transmission grid. This project will be the 11th offshore wind farm to be connected to the mainland by Siemens in the UK. Moreover, Moray East marks the largest offshore grid connection in terms of transmission capacity and order entry Siemens has delivered or been awarded in the UK to date.
Press Release | 06. Dec 2018 |
This content is no longer available.
Press Release | 06. Dec 2018 |
DB Regio orders 39 regional multiple units from Siemens for the Rhine Valley network
South-west Germany is counting on Siemens: from 2020 onward, DB Regio AG will be operating its Rhine Valley rail network exclusively with new trains from Siemens. The German Railways order covers 15 Desiro HC and 24 Mireo trains in total, and goes hand in hand with a restructuring of the rail transport services in the Rhine Valley. There is a clear separation between a rapid train system for fast cross-regional services and a regional suburban rail system (S-Bahn) with stops at all stations. The Mireo will be deployed as a regional train (RB) service along the line section from Offenburg via Freiburg to Basel/Neuenburg (Switzerland) as well as in the Kaiserstuhl area on Sundays between Freiburg and Endingen/Breisach. The line section from Karlsruhe via Offenburg and Freiburg to Basel (Switzerland) will be operated with the Desiro HC as a regional express service.
Feature | 05. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
High-speed packaging - Packaging machine manufacturer achieves totally in-house development with Siemens
News | 05. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens inaugurates new campus in Zug

    Headquarters of Siemens Building Technologies
    Headquarters of Smart Infrastructure Operating Company as of April 1, 2019
    Total investment of 250 million Swiss francs (CHF)
    Reference project for smart buildings

Siemens AG inaugurated its new campus in Zug on December 5th. The Siemens Zug campus features a new office building with 1,000 work spaces and a newly constructed production building. The investment volume for new buildings, renovations and related measures amounts to CHF 250 million. The campus is the international headquarters of the Siemens Building Technologies (BT) Division, which has 29,000 employees. Last year it posted worldwide sales of 6.6 billion euros. As Siemens reference projects, the buildings feature innovative building technology.
Press Release | 05. Dec 2018 |
Siemens connects electricity grids of UK and Belgium with HVDC link

    Nemo Link is the first transmission link between the two countries
    It enables transmission of 1,000 MW electricity using Siemens HVDC Plus technology
    Siemens built converter stations housing the state of the art HVDC equipment in both Herdersbrug (Belgium) and Richborough (UK)
    Official opening ceremony on December 5 in Herdersbrug with Belgian and UK dignitaries

Nemo Link® interconnector is a joint venture between the Transmission System Operators Elia (Belgium) and National Grid (UK), to exchange electricity up to 1,000 MW between the two countries, using high voltage direct current (HVDC) technology. Nemo Link connects the Belgian and the British power grid with a combination of subsea and underground cables. This new 140 kilometers (km) long HVDC interconnection increases security of supply for both countries, allowing the import and export of electricity, as well as supporting the integration of renewable energy in the grid. The European Commission designated it a Project of Common Interest as it contributes to an integrated European energy market.
Press Release | 05. Dec 2018 |
Billion-euro order: Siemens to build Rhine-Ruhr express
Labeled as the project of the century for the German metropolitan region, the Rhine-Ruhr express (RRX) will help alleviate the continuously worsening transportation issues along the Rhine and Ruhr from 2018. The municipalities involved in the new RRX rail transport concept commissioned Siemens to supply 82 electric multiple units, type Desiro HC, and to provide maintenance services for a period of 32 years. With a total volume of more than 1.7 billion euros, this is the largest regional rail service order in Germany so far for Siemens. The region is one of the largest conurbations in Europe, with a population of approximately ten million and numerous transit routes. On the main section between Cologne and Dortmund in particular, mobility has been heavily restricted for years now by overstretched public transport networks and train connections. Through a targeted extension of the railway network and the shift of traffic from road to rail this enables, the RRX is expected to replace roughly 31,000 individual car trips every working day. The first RRX trains will begin operating punctually with the change of the rail system's timetable on December 9, 2018. Commercial operation will begin on Line RE 11 that connects Düsseldorf, Essen, Dortmund, Hamm, Paderborn and Kassel. During rush hours the eventual target is one train every 15 minutes.
Feature | 05. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
RRX regional trains inaugurates service on schedule

    Service to begin when timetable changes on December 9, 2018
    Federal Railway Authority approves operation of trains
    Approval granted punctually
    Increased capacity and passenger comfort

The electric multiple unit (EMU) trains built by Siemens Mobility for the Rhine-Ruhr Express (RRX) will begin operating punctually with the change of the rail system's timetable on December 9, 2018. Germany's Federal Railway Authority (EBA) has officially approved the train. The planned deadline was met right on time and commercial operation will begin on Line RE 11 that connects Düsseldorf, Duisburg, Essen, Dortmund, Hamm, Paderborn and Kassel. Up to 43,000 passengers use this route daily. A total of 15 trains will now be entering service. The new Desiro HC trains provide 25 percent more capacity than the trains previously used on this line, and offer significantly enhanced passenger comfort and convenience. The digitalized service and maintenance provided by Siemens Mobility guarantees over 99 percent availability of the new EMUs.
Press Release | 05. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Virtual reality platform Comos Walkinside now available for web browsers and mobile devices
Siemens and PureWeb announced the integration of the PureWeb Platform with Siemens' Comos Walkinside Viewer. Comos Walkinside is a virtual reality platform with powerful 3D visualization designed to allow plant engineers and operating personnel to move virtually inside and outside of a plant for operating, training and simulation purposes. The PureWeb Platform provides comprehensive tools for remotely accessing, delivering and interacting with 2D/3D models in real time. This enables Comos Walkinside viewers to realistically depict highly complex plant models in several dimensions using any web browser or mobile device.
Press Release | 04. Dec 2018 |
Siemens and ST Engineering secure major order for floating power plant in Dominican Republic

    Hybrid power plant solution with integrated battery energy storage
    Power supply with a capacity of 145 megawatts
    Scheduled to start operation in Santo Domingo in spring 2021

Siemens and the marine arm of ST Engineering in Singapore have jointly received an order for a SCC-800 2x1C SeaFloat barge-mounted power plant from Seaboard Corporation subsidiary Transcontinental Capital Corporation (Bermuda) Ltd., an Independent Power Producer (IPP) with operation in Dominican Republic. The project Estrella del Mar III in the Dominican Republic will provide the customer with a highly efficient power generation facility.
Press Release | 03. Dec 2018 |
Siemens and Aker Solutions to Strengthen Digital Offerings through Strategic Collaboration
Aker Solutions and Siemens have signed a strategic collaboration agreement to further develop digital offerings in engineering, operations and services. The collaboration focuses on the creation of software applications and joint service offerings including the development of industrial digital twins that will drive efficiency throughout the entire plant lifecycle. In addition, the companies will further develop specific offerings for the oil and gas sector based on Siemens' Comos engineering platform. These solutions will help customers to reduce engineering and operational cost and enable improved decision making. The agreement builds on a long-standing, successful relationship between both companies by combining individual strengths and promoting joint offerings.
Press Release | 03. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
SiReliable "gas processing" - Gas liquefaction processes monitored and driven by Siemens technology
News | 03. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility to deliver intelligent tunnel solutions for Stockholm Bypass

    Trafikverket awards 75 million Euro contract
    Siemens Mobility, with Eltel Networks Infranet, to deliver intelligent infrastructure technology
    Communications, control and monitoring systems for tunneling 

The Swedish Transport Administration, Trafikverket, has announced that it awarded Siemens Mobility a 75 million Euro contract to deliver communications, control and monitoring technologies for a section of the European route number four (E4), the Stockholm Bypass. The new bypass will connect the southern and northern parts of the surrounding Stockholm communities. The bypass is a 21-kilometer road, including 18 kilometers of tunneling around one of Europe's busiest capitals. It will relieve intercity and main thoroughfare congestion, significantly reducing delays for residents and visitors. The construction of the tunnel started in 2014 and is expected to be completed in 2026. Installation and testing of Siemens Mobility technologies will begin in 2021.
Press Release | 03. Dec 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens provides sustainable energy for Galapagos Island

    Hybrid project based on biofuel and solar energy inaugurated on the Galapagos island of Isabela
    First of its kind local energy system, developed for carbon-neutral operation
    Remotely monitored from the Siemens-Mindsphere Application Centers in Munich and Austin, Texas

After only ten months of planning and ten months of construction, the hybrid power plant installed by Siemens on the Galapagos island of Isabela was inaugurated. The aim of the project was to convert the current power generation structure, which is based on fossil fuels, to a hybrid system with several primary energy sources. The system is designed to run carbon-neutral with biofuel and solar energy and supplies almost 900 households on the by far largest Galapagos Island with electricity.
Press Release | 03. Dec 2018 |
Cost-effective, compact level transmitter with intelligent processing for improved accuracy

    Improved accuracy and repeatability
    Increased asset utilization and decreased operational waste
    Wide range of applications in environmental, chemical, and food and beverage industries
    Hart 7 communications

Siemens presents Sitrans Probe LU240, its newest ultrasonic level measurement Hart transmitter, a hardworking and rugged device that provides reliable level, volume, and ﬂow measurements. Engineered for the challenges of the environmental industry, this transmitter is also suited for the chemical and food and beverage applications. Field-proven Process Intelligence echo processing separates true material level echoes from false, providing reliable readings while still allowing rapid response to actual changes in the material level. The device's reduced blanking distance decreases waste in applications while boosting asset utilization by providing continuously accurate readings even with high levels of material.
Press Release | 02. Dec 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens is going carbon neutral by 2030
In September 2015, Siemens announced its intention to cut the carbon footprint of its operative business in half by 2020 and to become climate neutral by 2030. To achieve this, Siemens is focusing on four levers: energy efficiency, decentralized energy systems, intelligent e-mobility solutions and the purchasing of clean electricity. Siemens is investing €100 million in improving the energy efficiency of its own buildings and production facilities with expected annual savings of about €20 million from 2020 onwards. Since the program launch, Siemens has managed to reduce its CO2 emission by around 33%. In 2016, Siemens joined the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC).
Feature | 02. Dec 2018 | Siemens AG
Modular production: GEA and Siemens jointly use MTP automation standard - Cooperation announced at SPS IPC Drives 2018 – The GEA Plug & Win compact skid separator will be exhibited at the Siemens booth in hall 11
News | 30. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens gains IEC 62443 certification for secure system integration services

    TÜV Süd certified process for system integration and solution project processing in conformity with IEC 62443-2-4 and -3-3
    Security documentation in conformity with IEC 62443
    Implementation of certified solutions with Simatic PCS 7
    Standardized processes reduce outlay for customers

Siemens is the world's first company to gain TÜV SÜD certification for the secure system integration of process automation and drive solutions in compliance with the international IEC 62443-2-4 standards. The integration projects, verified on the basis of two standard solutions in the oil & gas processing industry and in a waste incineration plant, have been certified in conformity with IEC 62443-2-4 and -3-3 and were implemented using the Simatic PCS 7 process control system. The projects involved process automation, drive solutions and comprehensive security measures and functions designed to deliver secure plant operation. The certification has a whole range of advantages to offer for customers: plant operators benefit from the precise definition of requirements, the implementation of standardized automation solutions and processes, and from the availability of documentation in conformance with standards. This documentation provides a vital foundation for verifying compliance with the technical requirements of the IT Security Act and other cyber security standards, for the sustainable improvement of IT and OT system security, and for guaranteeing the security of general supplies. The system solutions are used in sectors involving a critical infrastructure, such as waste management and the oil and gas industry.
Press Release | 29. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Supervisory Board extends appointment of Managing Board member Lisa Davis
The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has extended the appointment of Managing Board member Lisa Davis (55) ahead of schedule. Her term of office will now continue until the end of October 2020. This move is a sign of continuity in the context of the implementation of the company's new Vision 2020+ strategy program. Her contract will subsequently extend automatically by one year until the end of October 2021, provided that neither Lisa Davis nor the Supervisory Board objects.
Press Release | 29. Nov 2018 | Siemens AG
Simatic IPC227E: New hardware platform for Edge applications

    Edge Devices to collect and process large data volumes directly at the machine
    Secure, future-proof basis for the execution of Industrial Edge applications
    Simple update procedure and software rollouts through secure link to central Edge Management System
    Savings through edge computing in the Siemens Electronics Factory Amberg

At the SPS IPC Drives 2018 in Nuremberg, Siemens will be showcasing a newly developed hardware platform for edge applications as part of its Siemens Industrial Edge concept: The compact Simatic Edge Device works on the basis of the embedded industrial PC Simatic IPC227E, and features integrated connectivity to automation on the machine level. This allows manufacturing data to be captured and processed directly at the point of production. If there is a change to the framework conditions underlying the industrial application, Industrial Edge offers facility to adjust software applications on the Edge Device, keeping them right up to date using functional, feedback-free updates. The hardware comes with a closed all-metal housing, ensuring maximum industrial functionality for flexible, maintenance-free use under even the harshest of conditions. Rapid commissioning is guaranteed using pre-installed Edge software.
Press Release | 29. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and ADNOC celebrate inauguration of Taweelah Gas Compression Plant

    The new plant comprises three compression trains for uninterrupted gas supply to Abu Dhabi industries and Northern Emirates
    ADNOC Gas Processing to utilize up to 450 million standard cubic feet per day (mmscfd) of sales gas, delivered via Maqta-Taweelah pipeline

The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) inaugurated its Taweelah Gas Compression Plant, ensuring uninterrupted gas supplies to major Abu Dhabi industries and the UAE's Northern Emirates. The plant, located 50 kilometers north of Abu Dhabi, will utilize up to 450 mmscfd of sales gas, delivered to the facility by ADNOC Gas Processing's recently installed Maqta-Taweelah pipeline.
Press Release | 29. Nov 2018 |
Compact Industrial PC Simatic IPC127E connects machines with each other and with the cloud

    Industrial PC for use as an IoT gateway enables data to be managed directly in the production environment
    Based on Windows or Linux, for networking machinery of different manufacturers and of different technological versions
    Fitted with up to 3 LAN interfaces for high connectivity
    Pre-configured versions available from stock

Siemens has expanded its product portfolio of Simatic industrial PCs to include the Simatic IPC127E. The newly developed industrial PC is suitable, for example, for use as a gateway and enables data to be managed directly in the production environment. Whether it is based on Windows or Linux, the Simatic IPC127E makes it possible to network existing systems with machinery of different manufacturers and different technological versions. Thanks to the compact enclosure of just 0.3 liters, it can be integrated with a minimum space requirement in the cabinet or directly at the machine.
Press Release | 28. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Six additional metro trains from Siemens Mobility for Nuremberg

    VAG Verkehrs-Aktiengesellschaft Nürnberg exercises first option
    A total of 27 metro trains to be delivered
    Greater passenger comfort and optimized passenger flows

VAG Verkehrs-Aktiengesellschaft, Nuremberg's public transport operator, has ordered six additional type G1 metro trains from Siemens Mobility, exercising one of two options in the contract signed in December 2015. All in all, Siemens Mobility will now be supplying 27 new metro trains for Nuremberg. The new four-car G1 trains in the first option are planned for use on the U1 metro line as of 2021 and will replace twelve type DT2 two-car trains.The metro trains will be built at the Siemens Mobility plant in Vienna, Austria. Various vehicle components, such as drive converters, motors, auxiliary converters and control systems, will be manufactured in Nuremberg. Project management, development and service support will be handled in Erlangen.
Press Release | 27. Nov 2018 | Siemens Mobility
New Sinamics G120X converter series specializing in infrastructure applications

    New Sinamics converter family series optimized for pump and fan infrastructure applications
    0.75 to 630 kW power range allows operation with any motor
    Stable running under any network conditions thanks to integrated DC link reactor
    Sinamics G120X is digitalization-ready and can be linked directly to the cloud with Sinamics Connect 300

Siemens will be presenting a brand new converter series at this year's SPS IPC Drives. The converters of the new Sinamics G120X series are especially suited for use in pump and fan applications in industries such as water/wastewater, building technology or also in industrial environments. With a power range of 0.75 to 630 kW, Sinamics G120X converters can be operated with any motor. The converters are at their most effective running with synchronous reluctance motors from Siemens. Sinamics G120X are configured throughout for cost-optimized and resource-saving operation across all voltages and supply networks, and their characteristic compact design saves space in the control cabinet. Although not featuring an additional output reactor, the converters enable motor cable lengths of up to 150 meters. The integrated safety functions are certified to SIL3.
Press Release | 27. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens extends Digital Enterprise offering with future technologies for Industrie 4.0

    Integration of artificial intelligence and edge computing into Digital Enterprise portfolio
    Networking concepts from factory floors to corporate offices
    Growing ecosystem surrounding MindSphere 

By expanding its Digital Enterprise portfolio and integrating future technologies, Siemens is driving forward the digital transformation of the discrete and process industries. "An ever-increasing number of industrial enterprises, particularly SMEs, are well on the way towards Industrie 4.0, and are already improving their competitive standing with digital solutions," explained Klaus Helmrich, Member of the Management Board of Siemens AG, at the SPS IPC Drives. "This applies to all sectors of industry with rapidly changing market demands in which products have to be manufactured ever more quickly, flexibly and in diminishing quantities. With the further integration of technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and edge computing into our portfolio, we're paving the way for the future of industry." Siemens will be present at the fair with an array of innovations and industry-specific applications, ranging from automation and edge devices using artificial intelligence in applications such as machine tools, production machinery and process plants through to integrated networking concepts from factory floors to corporate offices. These all help to drive forward the use of innovative automation and software solutions.
Press Release | 27. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Artificial Intelligence for Simatic

    New TM NPU module for the S7-1500 and ET 200MP with integral AI-capable chip: Intel Myriad X
    Evaluation of input data such as video, sound or CPU data by means of neural networks
    Use of machine-learning algorithms in production processes
    Efficient implementation of pick-and-place applications or quality checks on the basis of (human) expert knowledge

Siemens is launching onto the market a new module for the Simatic S7-1500 controller and the ET 200MP I/O system, which has a chip with artificial intelligence (AI) capability: The S7-1500 TM NPU (neural processing unit) is equipped with the Intel Movidius Myriad X Vision processing unit, thus enabling the efficient processing of neural networks. The module gets its function from the provision of a trained neural system on an SD card and is equipped with the USB 3.1 interfaces and a Gigabit Ethernet port. On the basis of the neural network, data from a connected sensor system or from the CPU program can be processed. By using machine-learning algorithms, for example, visual quality checks in production plants or image-guided robot systems can be efficiently realized. This makes a considerably more efficient and more "human-like" behavior possible. With this module, Siemens is taking another step toward the integration of future technologies into industrial applications.
Press Release | 27. Nov 2018 |
Siemens supports OPC Foundation Initiative to extend OPC UA, including TSN down to the field level

    Active support of OPC UA and Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN) technology
    Commitment to driving OPC UA with TSN forward within the OPC Foundation
    Comprehensive support of the OPC Foundation with Profisafe domain know-how for functional safety communication based on OPC UA
    Profinet based on TSN as mainstream solution at the field level

Siemens welcomes the initiative previously published by the OPC Foundation to further enable OPC UA adoption throughout industrial automation by extending standardization and harmonization activities for OPC UA, including TSN-enabled Ethernet networks at the field level. Siemens, as a founding and board member of the OPC Foundation, is a strong supporter of the OPC UA technology and has been active in core standardization working groups for many years.
Press Release | 27. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens at the SPS IPC Drives 2018
The digital transformation of the producing industry is gaining momentum. Companies from a wide variety of industries are already unlocking this potential – they are using end-to-end digitalization to create a lasting competitive edge by reducing time to market and increasing flexibility, efficiency, and quality. With Siemens Digital Enterprise solutions the technical prerequisites for the implementation of Industrie 4.0 are available and can be deployed in every application and companies of all sizes. At the SPS IPC Drives in Nuremberg, Germany, from November 27 to 29, 2018 – which took place this year under the motto "Digital Enterprise – Implement now" – Siemens showed in hall 11 how this can be done.
Nuremberg | 26. Nov 2018 - 28. Nov 2018 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries Save the date
Solution and Approved partners join booth - Joint presentation with Actemium, Löffelhardt and Sonepar at the SPS IPC Drives
News | 26. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Sinamics Connect 300 for simple connection of Sinamics LV converters to the IT world

    Smart connection panel with LAN link for cloud-based digitalization solutions
    Simple plug-and-play handling, also for use in legacy systems
    Analyze MyDrives now available on the latest MindSphere version

The new Sinamics Connect 300 from Siemens provides a simple plug-and-play solution for integrating converters of the Sinamics family into the IT world. The new solution is suitable for low-voltage converters and supports cloud-based digitalization solutions. MindSphere applications such as Analyze MyDrives can now be used directly via Sinamics Connect 300. Sinamics Connect 300 is an IoT gateway with its own dedicated LAN connection. The converter is connected directly to the Sinamics Connect 300 terminal block. Parameters, operating data and statuses are being transmitted over universal serial interface protocol and can be retrieved at any time. No modifications are necessary to the hardware or firmware of drives used with Sinamics Connect 300, nor do PLC programs need to be adjusted. Commissioning takes place conveniently and simply using a web server user interface. Sinamics Connect 300 does not bring about any changes to the data and signal flow of the machine automation, nor does it place any additional load on the field bus of the machine or plant. This makes the use of Sinamics Connect 300 completely independent of the automation and enables rapid, trouble-free and low-cost commissioning. The simultaneous connection of up to eight drives opens up outstanding economies of scale, and the Sinamics Connect 300 is also highly suited for machine users looking to directly upgrade heterogeneous legacy machine fleets in brown field projects.
Press Release | 26. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens extends its positioner portfolio with Sipart PS100

    Sipart PS100 for fast, easy commissioning
    Sipart PS2 positioner with improved diagnostics functions
    Siemens valve monitoring app with extensive control and analysis options

With the Sipart PS100, Siemens is presenting a new positioner that is impressively easy to commission and highly robust. The Sipart PS100 can be initialized quickly at the touch of a button, automatically adjusting itself to the attached valve. If required, it is possible to optimize the positioner for a specific application with just one further touch of a button. Just as some cameras feature portrait, sport or night mode, the positioner can be set to different modes for precise and fast adjustment, open/close operation and other applications. These functionalities save time, cut the costs of commissioning, and increase the return on investment.
Press Release | 23. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens PLM Software drives Feihe Dairy in strategic business digitalization journey

    Feihe Dairy to digitalize their complete value chain with the Siemens PLM Software digital innovation platform
    Digitalization can help Feihe Dairy achieve greater operational efficiency and transparency in the complete production line

News | 23. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Hagemeyer equips logistics center with Siemens cloud-based power monitoring system
Hagemeyer, a leading German electronics wholesaler, has commissioned Siemens with installing a cloud-based power monitoring system. The system will create transparency about energy flow in the Hagemeyer sales and logistics center in Maisach near Munich and will show saving potential at the facility in an effort to achieve long-term improvements in energy efficiency. The objective here is to lower overall energy consumption by up to 15 percent per year. Hagemeyer will deploy more than 100 measuring devices of the 7KM PAC series from the Sentron portfolio in Sivacon 8MF1 system cubicles and Alpha 3200 low-voltage power distribution boards and implement the powermanager power monitoring software on site. In addition, it also connects to MindSphere, the open Internet of Things (IoT) operating system from Siemens.
Press Release | 22. Nov 2018 |
Grain supplies to the world - Ship loading and unloading operations made simple with Siemens technology
News | 21. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens joins Energy Web Foundation

    Leading alliance for blockchain developments specifically for the energy industry
    Siemens is proactively shaping the future of blockchain-based, transactive energy applications

Siemens' Divisions Energy Management and Power Generation Services have joined the Energy Web Foundation (EWF). The non-profit organization's mission is to accelerate the commercial deployment of blockchain technology in the energy sector. With a growing membership landscape of corporate affiliates, technology partners and strategic investors active in the energy industry, the EWF is the leading alliance for blockchain developments specific to the energy industry's needs. As part of the EWF organization, Siemens aims to proactively shape the future of blockchain-based, transactive energy applications, new prosumer-centric use cases as well as business models around operation of distributed energy systems, microgrids and financing.
Press Release | 21. Nov 2018 |
Siemens honors 12 researchers who account for 590 inventions

    Inventors come from Germany, Austria, France, Norway, Poland, India, China, Mexico and the U.S.
    33 inventions per day in fiscal 2018

Siemens has honored 12 particularly resourceful researchers as Inventors of the Year 2018. Together, these scientists are responsible for some 590 inventions and 589 individual patents. Two of the inventors are from Germany, three from Austria and one each from Norway, France, Poland, Mexico, China, India and the United States. Their inventions range from new software that revolutionizes component design with 3D printing to an ingenious window coating that significantly improves the reception of cellular communication signals in trains.
Press Release | 21. Nov 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens extends RFID portfolio with compact reader for space-saving uses

    New Simatic RF615R UHF reader with particularly compact design
    Connection to cloud environments via OPC UA interface and industrial IoT gateway
    "UHF for Industry" algorithms secure operation in environments with poor radio signals

Siemens is extending its range of Simatic RF600 ultra-high frequency (UHF) devices to include a new RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) reader. The Simatic RF615R comes with a particularly compact design (133 x 155 x 45 millimeters), an internal, circularly polarized antenna and an additional external antenna connection. Using the connection for the additional external antenna, it is possible to set up a cost-efficient small-scale RFID gate. The device supports OPC UA as an IoT (Internet of Things) interface and communicates via the OPC UA AutoID Companion Specification V1.0 data model. This permits vendor-independent communication within the automation and a standardized connection to cloud applications such as the open cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere via an industrial IoT gateway such as Ruggedcom RX1400 with CloudConnect. Analysis of gathered data provides transparency for KPIs such as plant availability, utilization of assets, or energy saving potential. This in turn means optimized supply chains – resulting in improved efficiency and quality in production, logistics, asset management and other areas.
Press Release | 20. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility to deliver the new metro trains for London's Tube
Siemens Mobility has been awarded a major contract in the United Kingdom. London Underground (LUL), a subsidiary of Transport for London, responsible for the urban rail system in Britain's capital, signed a contract with Siemens Mobility to design and build 94 new generation Tube trains worth around €1.5 billion GBP (1.54 billion Euro) to replace the existing 1970s fleet. The trains will serve the Piccadilly line and delivery will begin in 2023. The new metro trains for London will significantly increase capacity and throughput on the Piccadilly line. The new spacious Piccadilly line trains are based on Siemens Mobility's Inspiro family of metro trains and offer passengers substantially improved passenger experience. As part of a fleet services contract, Siemens Mobility will be responsible for covering the supply of spares for a period of five years beginning with the commissioning of the first trains. Siemens Mobility will also provide whole life technical support for the trains when they are out of their general warranty. Additionally, LUL has ordered digital services based on Siemens Mobility's Railigent.
Feature | 20. Nov 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens supplies SF6-free high-voltage products for E.ON in Sweden

    First CO2-neutral high-voltage project for Siemens in Sweden
    Vacuum switching technology combined with "clean air" replaces SF6 as switching and insulating medium
    High operational performance even at lowest temperatures

Siemens will equip a 145-kilovolt (kV) substation owned by E.ON Sweden with SF6-free high-voltage products by the middle of 2020. The orders comprise six bays, including circuit breakers for 72.5-kV and 145-kV as well as 145-kV instrument transformers. With these innovative products of the so called "blue portfolio," Siemens is supporting E.ON Sweden's goal towards a sustainable F-gas free power transmission. The solution will be deployed at the Fårhult project site located in southern Sweden close to Västervik. It will deliver high-performance operation at extreme temperatures as low as -55° Celsius without a heating system.
Press Release | 20. Nov 2018 |
Siemens Mobility secures major order to manufacture a new generation of Tube trains in London

    94 metro trains for London based on the Inspiro platform
    Delivery beginning in 2023
    Digital services based on Siemens Mobility's Railigent
    New trains will be more spacious, air-conditioned, have walk-through carriages and improve accessibility
    Additional capacity, maximized throughput and improved passenger experience for millions of passengers

Siemens Mobility has been awarded a major contract in the United Kingdom. London Underground (LUL), a subsidiary of Transport for London (TfL), responsible for the urban rail system in Britain's capital, signed a contract with Siemens Mobility to design and build 94 new generation Tube trains worth around 1.5 billion GBP (1.54 billion Euro) to replace the existing 1970s fleet. The trains will serve the Piccadilly line and delivery will begin in 2023.
Press Release | 20. Nov 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Extended output and connected voltage variants for Sinamics S210

    First new frame size in 0.4 to one kilowatt output range
    New shared DC link coupling reduces waste heat during braking and increases traversing cycle of individual axes
    Higher-level control now possible with Simatic ET 200SP CPUs and Open Controllers or Simatic S7-1500 Software Controllers
    Engineering and commissioning using Sizer and Start Drive, engineering in TIA Portal V15.1

Siemens is extending its Sinamics S210 single-axis servo drive system for mid-range applications to include a number of additional output and connected voltage variants. In the first of the new frame sizes, the system is available with an output of 0.4 to one kilowatt with 3 AC 400 volts. The new Sinamics S210 device variants come with an optional busbar trunking system and a shared DC link coupling to enable their international application. The DC link coupling permits energy equalization during dynamic reversing operations by using the integrated braking resistor to reduce waste heat occurring during braking and increasing the traversing cycle of the individual axes. Alongside S7-1500 Advanced Controllers, higher-level control of the new devices is also possible using Simatic ET 200SP CPUs (Central Processing Units) and Open Controllers or Simatic S7-1500 Software Controllers, all of which are connected over time-synchronized Profinet IRT. The drive system can be simply engineered and commissioned using the integrated web server. Alternatively, engineering can now also be performed using Startdrive in the TIA (Totally Integrated Automation) Portal from Version V15.1.
Press Release | 20. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Simple transfer to the cloud - Siemens expands portfolio with new gateway for plug & play mobile wireless router
News | 20. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
New device series paves the way for high frequency RFID cloud connection

    Simatic RF18xC communication modules extend Simatic Ident portfolio
    Cost efficiency due to differentiated connection variants for readers
    Modular system integration for Profinet using standard function blocks
    Cloud connection via OPC UA interface and industrial IoT gateway

Siemens is extending its portfolio of Simatic Ident communication modules. The first devices of the new series to launch are the Simatic RF185C, RF186C and RF188C. Available options allow one, two or four readers to be connected and operated via Ethernet/Profinet, ensuring a match to the required number of readers. Depending on the application, data throughput can be increased by up to 20 percent using the new devices. The web-based management and the engineering in the TIA (Totally Integrated Automation) Portal, enable secured access to configuration, commissioning and diagnostic tools at any time. This means that users benefit from flexible visualization, improving project efficiency. The diagnostic function during operation and the diagnostic history which is available in the logbook also enhance plant availability. The new devices support OPC UA as an IoT (Internet of Things) interface, and communicate via the OPC UA AutoID Companion Specification V1.0 data model. This enables vendor-independent communication within the automation and a standardized connection to cloud applications through an industrial IoT gateway.
Press Release | 20. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens equipment selected for billion-dollar crude flexibility project with ADNOC Refining in UAE

    Siemens to supply 19 net-gas, off-gas and recycle gas compressors for crude flexibility project
    The project will enable the refinery to process up to 420,000 barrels per day of offshore crude oil 

Siemens was recently selected to provide 19 process reciprocating compressors for ADNOC Refining’s crude flexibility project at Ruwais Refinery-West. The project is intended to increase the refinery’s crude processing flexibility, enabling the site to process up to 420,000 barrels of oil per day of the local crude grade known as Upper Zakum, which is found offshore. The upgrade will improve the value of each barrel of oil and allow ADNOC to export more of its main onshore, lighter-grade Murban crude.
Press Release | 19. Nov 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens honors the 12 "Inventors of the Year" 2018
Siemens has honored 12 particularly resourceful researchers as Inventors of the Year 2018. Together, these scientists are responsible for some 590 inventions and 589 patents. Two of the inventors are from Germany, three are from Austria, one is each from Norway, France, Poland, Mexico, China, India and the United States. Every year since 1995, Siemens has been presenting this award to its outstanding researchers and developers whose inventions have made major contributions to the company's strong performance. Since 2016, this award has also been presented to researchers from outside the company. In fiscal 2018, Siemens filed around 3,850 patents worldwide – an increase of 200 patents over the previous year. Worldwide, Siemens holds about 65,000 patents. In fiscal 2018, Siemens employees submitted about 7,300 invention disclosures. On a basis of 220 workdays during the year, this figure corresponds to about 33 inventions per day. 
Munich | 19. Nov 2018 - 19. Nov 2018 | Siemens AG Save the date
High-performance programming device with rugged hardware for mobile engineering

    Simatic Field PG M6: Ready-to-use, high-performance programming device for mobile engineering with the TIA Portal
    Light, rugged and completely shielded device for use in machines and plants in a harsh industrial environment
    Preinstalled engineering software and integrated automation interfaces
    Equipment and performance graduated in Advanced and Comfort versions

The latest generation of ready-to-use, high-performance programming devices from Siemens has been optimized for engineering with the TIA Portal and designed for mobile use in machines and plants for configuration, commissioning, service, and maintenance. The new Simatic Field PG M6 programming device, with a stylish silver housing cover and M6 inscription, is equipped with a high-speed DDR4 work memory of up to 32 GB and an impact-resistant SSD mass storage device of up to 2 TB. Thanks to the light, rugged and completely shielded magnesium housing, the semi-ruggedized device is suitable for use in harsh industrial environments. Additionally, bumpers on exposed parts of the housing protect against shocks and vibrations.
Press Release | 19. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Flexible KS adapter links Simogear gear units to different servomotors

    New Simogear coupling adapter for Simotics servomotors
    Flexible-use adapter for simplified handling
    KS adapter reduces downtimes, optimizes stock keeping and is suited for high-precision applications

Siemens has launched a new coupling adapter for linking Simogear gear units to Siemens servomotors. As the flexible new solution can connect different gear unit types to different servomotors rather than using a separate dedicated adapter for each motor, the new solution radically simplifies handling. Versions KS03 to KS05 of the new adapter are made of aluminum and are currently available for Simotics S-1FL6 motors. As of calendar year 2019 it will also be possible to connect series S-1FK2, S-1FK7, S-1FT7 and M-1PH8 series motors to practically any size and type of gear unit. The benefits of the new adapter solution include shorter downtimes and lower costs due to simple installation and removal, optimized stock keeping and a backlash-free design enabling connection with no parallel key as standard for high-precision applications.
Press Release | 19. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Extended functions for WinCC - New version V7.5 of WinCC Scada system creates plant transparency on every level
News | 19. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens begins construction of new energy service and training center in Bolivia
As part of its deep commitment to supporting Bolivia's efforts to improve access to electricity for its growing population, Siemens recently celebrated the start of construction on a new, modern energy service and training center in Bolivia.
Press Release | 16. Nov 2018 |
New graphical 3D configurator simplifies the planning of control cabinets
At SPS IPC Drives, Siemens is presenting a new graphical configurator for Sivacon 8MF1 system cubicles. The modular system consists of a basic framework in 90 different sizes and 2,000 flexibly combinable elements. This enables the implementation of tailored solutions for virtually all industrial sectors and applications. With the new graphical configurator, control cabinet manufactures can now configure the system cubicles directly on the 3D model and order them electronically. They benefit from considerably reduced planning efforts and error-free configuration, which also allows customized modifications. Order processing is thus significantly shortened. The new online configurator for Sivacon 8MF1 system cubicles, Version 1.0 is expected to be available free of charge on the Internet starting in February 2019.
Press Release | 15. Nov 2018 |
Gin Distillery runs on state-of-the-art Siemens technology - Newly opened gin distillery on the path to digitalization
News | 15. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Industrial Security Appliances with extended functionality for even better network protection

    Bridge Firewall to protect flat networks
    Protection of Service Bridge and other applications
    User-specific firewall for individual protective measures
    Configuration now also possible in the new Sinec NMS management software

Siemens has extended the Scalance SC-600 Industrial Security Appliances to include more functionality for even better and simpler protection of production networks. The devices now have a Bridge Firewall, support redundant network structures, and allow user-specific firewalls. This enables users to increase the availability of their production while also reducing the procurement costs of network components.
Press Release | 15. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
New version (3.0) of Safety Library improves storage and retrieval system performance

    New Safety Library (3.0) for faster commissioning and compatibility with a wider range of Simatic-S7 controllers
    Advanced Position Control (APC) function for faster positioning
    New Simotics S-1FG1 servo-geared motors in upper and lower output range
    Cut in energy costs by optimized motion control

Siemens has upgraded its TÜV-certified Safety Library developed specifically for use with storage and retrieval systems. The benefits of Safety Library V3.0 for users include faster commissioning and compatibility with a wider range of failsafe Simatic controllers (from S7-1516F). Boosting the speed of storage cycles are two functions: Vibx (Vibration Extinction) and the more advanced new function Advanced Position Control (APC). APC also requires no additional sensors or actuators, and ensures the permanent prevention of mast vibrations. APC even kicks in under continuously changing vibration conditions, caused for instance by different loading conditions or variable disturbance factors such as wind. Supplementing this function are new additions to the Simotics S-1FG1 portfolio. In the upper output range, external fans now permit highly dynamic traversing processes, allowing a significantly more dynamic configuration of traversing motors. A new Simatic module for energy-optimized traversing enables energy savings despite the improved dynamic performance.
Press Release | 15. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
PG&E to use SF6-free high-voltage products from Siemens

    Vacuum circuit breakers and clean air insulation replace SF6 as extinguishing/insulating medium
    Dead-tank circuit breakers up to 115 kV
    Gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) for 115 kV, 50 kA

Siemens has received orders from its customer Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) to supply SF6-free dead-tank circuit breakers and gas-insulated switchgear (GIS). They are destined for California's 115-kilovolt (kV) high-voltage grid. The orders comprise dead-tank circuit-breakers for 72.5 kV and 115 kV as well as GIS for 115 kV. These circuit breakers use vacuum interrupters for switching functions and treated air known as "clean air" as the insulating medium. It's now possible to eliminate the use of sulfur hexafluoride, and this order is a major step forward for Siemens' SF6-free portfolio. The first delivery will take place in mid-2019. PG&E, one of the leading energy providers in the United States, launched a company-wide initiative in July of this year to cut greenhouse gas emissions from its operations by one million metric tons. One element is to use highly sustainable electric switchgear. "We are very pleased with the development of more and more SF6 free solutions for high voltage applications. They support PG&E at meeting the challenge of climate change while providing affordable energy to its customers", says Tom Rak, Manager of Substation and T-Line Standards Engineering at PG&E.
Press Release | 15. Nov 2018 |
Autonomous stockyard management system improves production capacity and efficiency

    Siemens implements autonomous stockyard management system in China
    Autonomous stockyard management system combines five automation systems
    Interaction of all components enables control of machines and conveyors
    Improved system efficiency, production capacity and security coupled with lower operating costs

Siemens is supplying an autonomous stockyard management system to be used in a new plant for HBIS Laoting Steel Co. Ltd., a Chinese subsidiary of one of the world's biggest iron and steel producers. The autonomous stockyard management system from Siemens comprises of a material tracking and management system (MAQ), an autonomous stockyard operating system (MOM), a Simatic PCS 7 process control system, industry network, consulting, engineering, project management and commissioning. Interaction between these different components enables control of all the plant's machines and conveying systems, it offers wide-ranging benefits such as the capability for all machines and conveyors to be controlled from a single system. This is achieved using a 3D model of the existing inventory which provides information on the volume and quality of stocked material, enabling autonomous operation of all the plant's storage and retrieval machines. This allows HBIS Laoting Steel Co. Ltd. not only to drive down its operating costs, but also to achieve between a five and ten percent improvement in system efficiency and between three and seven percent higher production capacity. The use of autonomous storage and retrieval machinery also improves safety.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
New system for managing Industrie 4.0 communication networks

    Comprehensive monitoring of large, complex networks 
    Rule-based configuration of the network infrastructure
    Central firmware management with topology-based rollout
    For cross-sector use in all industries

Siemens is launching Sinec NMS, a powerful, future-proof network management system (NMS). It enables users to master the growing demands placed upon industrial communication networks, such as the increasing degree of networking, larger quantities of data, and the complexity of network structures. Networks with between 50 and 12,500 participants can be centrally configured, managed and monitored round-the-clock with the software. This facilitates forward-looking planning and a quick response time to prevent possible failures and so increase productivity. The software can be used across all industries.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2018 |
Siemens integrates the highest international safety standard in polyhalite mine

    Supply of electrical equipment for two Blair Multi-Rope machines (BMR)
    Multi-channel brake system COBRA01 from OLKO and Siemens for reliable and safe stop at all events
    Highest international safety standard for a mine hoist – certified to Safety Integral Level 3 (SIL3) as well as German standards (TAS)
    The new development is for the mining of the world's largest polyhalite (fertilizer) deposit

OLKO-Maschinentechnik GmbH has ordered the electrical equipment for two Blair Multi-Rope machines (BMR) from Siemens. The hoisting winders are being used in the Woodsmith Mine run by Sirius Minerals, a world leading producer of polyhalite, a unique multi-nutrient fertilizer in North Yorkshire, UK. One hoist working as a so-called production winder for material hoisting, one as a service winder for personal transport, with a hoisting capacity of 35 tons (t) payload. The Polyhalite is hosted from approximately 1450 meters (m) below sea level to the surface at a hoisting speed of 18 meter per second (m/s). The delivery includes a medium-voltage synchronous motor with an output of 9.3 megawatts and a torque of 1550 kilonewton meters (kNm) for each machine which are powered directly from a medium-voltage Sinamics SM150 (PWM) frequency converter. Both winders are fitted with a COBRA01 multi-channel brake system which is a joint development between OLKO and Siemens. The digital speed control and supervision unit, which was developed by Siemens, meets the Safety Integral Level 3 standard (SIL 3, corresponds to IEC 61508) as well as the German TAS standard which applies to shaft hoisting systems. Siemens is therefore the first company in the world to integrate the highest safety standard in a mine hoist. The delivery also includes complete commissioning as well as annual inspection, maintenance and servicing. From 2021, the Woodsmith Mine will be the world's largest polyhalite producer, a material which is used to produce fertilizers. This is hoisted via two mine shafts and conveyed out of the national park to Seesside via a 37 kilometer (km) conveyor belt system in an underground tunnel. The majority of the polyhalite is exported once it has been pelletized.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2018 |
Siemens awarded long-term service agreement for new power project in Panama
On the heels of its first-time order for SGT-800 gas turbines in Panama earlier this year, Siemens has been awarded the long-term service and maintenance agreement for the same power plant project. The agreement was signed with the independent power producer Shanghai Gorgeous Group, through its subsidiary Sinolam Smarter Energy (SSE), which is the Panamanian end user of the project, formerly Gas to Power Panama by Martano.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2018 |
Dedicated remote access - Sinema Remote Connect V2.0 for improved machine security and simpler operation
News | 14. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and MineSense to cooperate in the real-time measurement of mined ore

    Significantly increase efficiency for mining customers worldwide
    Transparent smart ore movement and short interval control across entire conveying process
    Joint solution will provide real-time measurement of ore grades combined with material and quality management system Simine MAQ

With ore grades declining, plus added pressures such as rising energy costs and water restrictions, it is increasingly difficult for mining companies to competitively fulfil customer demand by delivering material on time, in the right quantity, and to the defined quality. To address this, Siemens and MineSense, have formed an exclusive cooperation on the real-time measurement of ore grade and ore characteristics for conveyors. By combining each party's strengths, the resulting joint solution will for the first time provide real-time measurement of ore grades and byproducts by MineSense's BeltSense™ in combination with a single material and quality management system, Siemens Simine MAQ. This new and comprehensive approach will enable customers to significantly increase efficiency via a single view of quality across the whole conveying process.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2018 |
Siemens introduces new advancements for the industrialization of additive manufacturing

    Seamless integrated software and automation solutions of the Digital Enterprise for additive manufacturing aimed at machine builders and users
    New integrated AM build process simulation software solution and new automated software and hardware solution for de-powdering part
    Enabling industrial Additive Manufacturing through a digitalized production facility
    Extended partnership-based financing services enabling Industrie 4.0 implementation in the field of additive manufacturing

Siemens will be showcasing its Digital Enterprise portfolio of seamless integrated solutions for additive manufacturing under the banner "Industrialize Additive Manufacturing" at formnext 2018, the lead exhibition for Additive Manufacturing (AM), in Frankfurt, Germany. The focus of the exhibition will be a digital representation of the real world – a digital twin – extending across the entire value chain, starting with design and engineering through simulation and production, to machine networking with Siemens Industrial Edge and the cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere. Complementing its software offering, the company will also be presenting its matching hardware for complete machine and factory automation. The Siemens presentation is designed to address additive manufacturing machine builders and users alike. By featuring a variety of use cases, the technology company will be demonstrating how companies active in the field of additive manufacturing can use digitalization to significantly boost the flexibility and efficiency of their production, radically reduce engineering workloads and shorten the time to market, thus consolidating and expanding their competitive standing in global markets.
Press Release | 13. Nov 2018 |
Siemens at the formnext 2018
Under the motto "Industrialize Additive Manufacturing" Siemens presented its comprehensive solution portfolio for consistent digitalization of additive manufacturing at the formnext 2018, the leading exhibition for additive manufacturing. Starting with the design and engineering software, via innovative simulation tools to complete machine and factory automation, Siemens demonstrated how the industrialization of additive manufacturing can be further accelerated. Furthermore Siemens introduced solutions around peripheral processes, such as automated support removal, surfaces finishing and part removal as well as post processing for intelligent de-powdering solutions. Additional, Siemens presented new business models, which have derived from digitalization in this industry.
Frankfurt am Main | 13. Nov 2018 - 16. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries Save the date
Siemens introduces Additive Manufacturing Process Simulation solution to improve 3D printing accuracy

    New additive manufacturing process simulation helps predict distortion and shrinkage during the 3D printing process and helps avoid these issues by automatically generating a compensated model
    Simcenter 3D solution for additive manufacturing process simulation is fully integrated within NX software for a streamlined feedback loop with no data translation required
    Siemens' integrated digital innovation platform allows simulation data to feed the digital thread, informing each step of the industrialized additive manufacturing process

Siemens announced today a new Additive Manufacturing (AM) Process Simulation solution for predicting distortion during 3D printing. The product is fully integrated into Siemens’ end-to-end Additive Manufacturing solution, which assists manufacturers in designing and printing useful parts at scale. Building on Siemens’ comprehensive digital innovation platform and the Simcenter™ portfolio, the AM Process Simulation solution uses a digital twin to simulate the build process prior to printing, anticipating distortion within the printing process and automatically generating the corrected geometry to compensate for these distortions. This simulation is paramount for constructing a ‘first time right’ print, and necessary for achieving the efficiencies required of a fully industrialized additive manufacturing process.
Press Release | 12. Nov 2018 |
Tailor-made designs in the skies - Aviation manufacturer uses Siemens PLM software in aircraft design
News | 12. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Aruba, a Hewlett Packard Enterprise company, form strategic partnership for integrated networks

    Partnership to bridge Operational Technology (OT) and Information Technology (IT) networks
    Solutions extend from factory floors to corporate offices
    Extensive interoperability testing and validated reference designs simplify deployment and maintenance based on complementary product portfolios

Siemens and Aruba, a Hewlett Packard Enterprise company, today announced a strategic partnership focused on bridging the Operational Technology (OT) and Information Technology (IT) worlds. Based on the complementary portfolios, Siemens and Aruba are able to support customers with highly reliable, secure and insightful data networks enabling high plant and network availability. Customers benefit from integrated networks with proven interoperability from factory floors to corporate offices based on Siemens' expertise as a leading provider of industrial Ethernet network components and Aruba's as a leader in wired and wireless LAN infrastructure.
Press Release | 12. Nov 2018 |
Protecting pumps in hazardous areas easily and reliably against dry running

    New type of active power-based dry running protection for pumps with certification according to ATEX and IEC Ex
    Current/voltage detection modules for the Simocode pro motor management system
    Previously required additional sensor technology is eliminated
    Higher levels of system availability and economic efficiency

A new type of detection technology from Siemens protects centrifugal pumps from dry running in hazardous areas. For this purpose, the corporation has developed special current/voltage detection modules for its Simocode pro motor management system. The principles and practical applicability of this technology have been investigated within the scope of a research cooperation project with the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (National Metrology Institute of Germany) in order for it to be certified as an ignition source monitoring device corresponding to a type b1 ignition protection system according to ATEX and IEC Ex.
Press Release | 12. Nov 2018 |
New power supply for a wide variety of applications

    New standard power supply for 12 V and 24 V applications
    High overload capability and energy efficiency
    Condition monitoring by means of diagnostics monitor and interface
    Rugged wide-range input, also suitable for direct voltage

Siemens is bringing a new line of particularly powerful and rugged power supplies to the market: The devices of the Sitop PSU6200 line can be used for a variety of purposes and offer extensive functions for targeted diagnostics, fast assembly and reliable operation. In addition, the single-phase 12 V and 24 V power supply units have a wide-range input for alternating voltage which also enables the connection to direct voltage and is particularly resistant to undervoltage and overvoltage. The high effectiveness of up to 95 percent and the efficient heat dissipation through the metal enclosure keep the heat generation low. The compact power supply units can therefore be arranged in a space-saving manner without lateral installation clearances to other devices. Typical applications include standard machine, control cabinet and system construction in the automotive, textile, food & beverage and pharmaceuticals industries, as well as the field of renewable energies.
Press Release | 09. Nov 2018 |
Siemens to launch new share buyback program

    Volume of up to €3 billion
    Share buyback to be executed by November 15, 2021

Siemens announced a new share buyback program today. The new buyback, with a volume of up to €3 billion, is to be executed in the period ending on November 15, 2021.
Press Release | 08. Nov 2018 | Siemens AG
Annual Press Conference 2018
We released our financial figures for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2018 on November 8, 2018. The Press Conference and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
| 08. Nov 2018 - 08. Nov 2018 | Siemens AG Save the date
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q4 FY 2018: Guidance fully achieved again – another strong year

    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, orders rose 8% and revenue increased 2%, with the majority of the industrial businesses contributing to growth
    On a nominal basis, orders rose 6%, to €91.3 billion; revenue was up slightly at €83.0 billion; the book-to-bill ratio was 1.10
    Industrial Business profit came in lower, at €8.8 billion, as profit increases in most industrial businesses did not fully offset sharply lower profit at Power and Gas
    Industrial Business profit margin excluding severance charges of 11.3%, clearly in the guidance range of 11% to 12%; profit margin including severance charges of €0.8 billion was 10.4% with most industrial businesses within or above their target ranges
    Net income up slightly at €6.1 billion; basic earnings per share (EPS) of €7.12; excluding severance charges, basic EPS at €7.88, well within the guidance range of €7.70 to €8.00
    Free cash flow rose to €5.8 billion, up 22% year-over-year
    Siemens proposes to raise the dividend €0.10 per share, to €3.80 per share
    Successful completion of share buyback program initiated in November 2015 with a volume of €3.0 billion; new share buyback program announced with volume up to €3.0 billion until November 2021

"We again delivered what we promised and fully reached our guidance which we raised at mid-year. This shows the strength of our global team which competed convincingly in both growth markets and difficult environments, and achieved another strong performance. In fiscal 2019 we will give our businesses even greater entrepreneurial freedom, and lay the foundation for execution of Vision 2020+."
Press Release | 08. Nov 2018 | Siemens AG
Transparent part tracking - Furniture part manufacturer relies on Siemens RFID technology for on-schedule production
News | 07. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens receives order for world's first SF6-free gas-insulated switchgear with "clean air" and vacuum switching technology for 145 kV

    Vacuum circuit breakers and "clean air" insulation replace SF6 as switching and insulating medium
    SF6-free gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) for 145 kV, 40 kA, 3,150 A
    Combination with low power instrument transformers (LPIT) ensures a compact design

Siemens Energy Management received an order from Bergenshalvøens Kommunale Kraftselskap (BKK Nett) in Norway to supply the world's first SF6-free GIS with "clean air" and vacuum interruption systems for a voltage level of up to 145 kilovolts (kV). The switchgear is part of the Koengen substation in Bergen, which shall supply electricity from renewable energy sources to Norway's largest cruise ship seaport. Non-conventional systems for measuring current and voltage allow the switchgear to have a much more compact design. The start of the collaboration was celebrated on November 5, 2018, at Siemens' headquarters in Bergen. Commissioning is scheduled for end of 2019.
Press Release | 07. Nov 2018 |
Siemens onshore power supplies to be used in construction of the world's largest cruise ships

    Reduction of pollutant emissions, diesel generators can remain shut down
    Parallel supply with up to 12 MVA in dock and while berthed
    Flexible 50/60-Hertz (Hz) power supply
    Siemens takes on turnkey construction and service

Siemens has received an order from MV WERFTEN Wismar GmbH to supply and install turnkey Siharbor onshore power supplies. The onshore power supply system will be used to build "Global Class" cruise ships. Measuring 340 meters in length and providing space for more than 5,000 passengers, these vessels are the world's largest cruise ships, and great amounts of energy are needed for their construction. An onshore power supply with a capacity of up to 12 MVA provides this energy simultaneously in dock and on the quay. The order covers all the necessary components for powering the ships as well as the grid connection. It includes the complete substation, transformers, and medium-voltage switchgear. Siemens will also be responsible for service for a period of five years. The systems are expected to go into operation in the spring of 2019.
Press Release | 06. Nov 2018 |
Siemens presents SIEAERO – the next generation of overhead line inspection

    SIEAERO leverages UAVs, artificial intelligence and digital twins to improve service of transmission lines
    Reducing the time for flight execution and data analysis from weeks or even months to a few days

Siemens has launched a new service approach for overhead line inspection called "SIEAERO" at European Utility Week 2018 in Vienna, Austria. For the first time artificial intelligence and a long-range unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) are used to bring inspection of transmission lines to the next level. SIEAERO smart analytics software is utilizing artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to store, manage and analyze all data in one integrated software system. To reduce the needed amount of flights and inspection efforts drastically, SIEAERO is using a unique high-resolution multi-sensor-system that can record all needed data in one go. Compared to conventional overhead line inspection, SIEAERO service is fully automated, faster and more precise. Siemens has been working closely with German and Austrian transmission system operators (TSO) TenneT and APG on the development of SIEAERO overhead line inspection service since 2016. With both TSOs Siemens has worked on test cases and the validation of a comprehensive inspection approach.
Press Release | 06. Nov 2018 |
Siemens at European Utility Week 2018
Agility is the ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, capitalize on emergent business opportunities, and reduce costs or increase revenue streams in the process. In the wake of decarbonization, decentralization, and digitalization, it is the basis for grid operators' and utilities' future business success. The Siemens booth at EUW 2018 presented combined solutions for electrification, automation, and digitalization that pave the way for multilayered, distributed, and connected grids, this way enabling the required degree of agility.
Vienna | 05. Nov 2018 - 07. Nov 2018 | Gas and Power Save the date
ICE 4 receives ETCS approval in Germany

    ETCS Baseline 3 train equipment for cross-border operation
    Commissioning approved for 12-car train
    Service on the Berlin – Munich route planned for timetable change in December 2018

Germany's Federal Railway Authority (EBA) has approved the ICE 4 for operation with the European Train Control System (ETCS) in Germany. With this approval, the passenger service can begin as planned on the Berlin – Munich route, which is equipped with the system. The ICE 4 is scheduled to operate on this line when German train operator Deutsche Bahn (DB) changes its timetable on December 9, 2018.
Press Release | 05. Nov 2018 | Siemens Mobility
It's all about nuts - Amateur peanut grower automates greenhouse with Siemens technology
News | 05. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Simotics HV C air-cooled: Innovative cooling concept for greater power density

    New cooling concept combines cooling fins and tubes
    Greater power density, longevity and reliability due to improved temperature distribution and vibration-optimized, robust housing
    Outstanding flexibility for customer interfaces
    Connection to the Sidrive IQ digital platform with Simotics Connect 600

The Simotics HV C air-cooled range from Siemens completes the Simotics HV C platform for compact high-voltage motors up to 3.2 megawatts (MW). The innovative cooling concept, involving a clever combination of fin and tube cooling, delivers improved temperature distribution in the motor, thus increasing the power density significantly. With their vibration-optimized, robust housing design, the Simotics HV C air-cooled motors score highly in terms of increased reliability. The new high-voltage motors feature an enclosed internal circulation (IC 411) and are equally suitable for use in areas where there is no danger of explosions (safe areas) and areas where explosions are not likely to occur (explosion protection zone 2) as well as being available in ignition-proof types Ex ec and Ex tc. The motors can be connected to the Sidrive IQ digital platform using the Simotics Connect 600 connector box: This provides access to cloud-based analysis of the condition data which allows the drive system to be optimized. The compact motors are used in pumps, fans, compressors, extruders, grinders, stirrers, mixers, conveyors and rollers in industries as diverse as energy, chemical, cement, paper and pulp, and mining.
Press Release | 02. Nov 2018 |
Bagging a winner – New line for complex hygiene packaging implemented with Siemens expertise
News | 02. Nov 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility enhances China's intelligent infrastructure with automated signaling systems

    Awarded Suzhou Metro Line 5 and Nanjing Metro Line 7 fully automated signaling system projects
    Trainguard MT is the state-of-the-art Communications Based Train Control (CBTC) system

Siemens Mobility was recently awarded the fully automated CBTC system for two key Chinese metro lines in Eastern China: Suzhou Metro Line 5 and Nanjing Metro Line 7. The cities, which collectively have more than 12 million residents, are two of the largest cities in the region. China's rapid urbanization in both cities requires fast and intelligent planning of transportation systems that will ease congestion and provide passengers a more reliable and efficient commute. Initial operations for both lines are planned for 2021.
Press Release | 02. Nov 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Major milestone achieved in the development of a barrier-breaking subsea power distribution system

    Siemens successfully completed the first phase of its shallow water test of the Subsea Power Grid.
    The development program was conducted in collaboration with industry partners Chevron, Equinor, ExxonMobil, and Eni Norge.
    This will be the world's first Subsea Power Grid for medium voltage power distribution using pressure compensated technology.

Siemens has successfully concluded the first phase of its Subsea Power Grid shallow water test in Trondheim, Norway. Siemens, in collaboration with industry partners Chevron, Equinor, ExxonMobil, and Eni Norge, is in the final stages of a program to develop a barrier-breaking system that will become the world’s first Subsea Power Grid designed for distribution of medium voltage power using pressure compensated technology.
Feature | 02. Nov 2018 | Smart Infrastructure
(Practically) noiseless restart – Automaker improves automatic idling stop systems with Siemens PLM Software
News | 31. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Sidrive IQ digital platform: Optimized performance into the megawatt range

    Sidrive IQ improves drive systems along the entire life cycle up to the megawatt range
    Cloud-based application based on networked drive systems from Siemens
    Increased productivity, reliability and ease of maintenance
    Standardized link enabled by Sinamics Connect 500 and Simotics Connect 600 connectivity modules

Sidrive IQ from Siemens provides a digital platform enabling the evaluation and utilization of data gathered from drive systems. On the basis of networked drive systems from Siemens, this cloud-based application is now also available for motors and converters in the medium and high-voltage range. This opens up an array of benefits for plant and machine operators, from optimized maintenance activity and maximum availability to increased productivity, from low outputs through to the megawatt range across the entire life cycle. Connectivity modules such as Simotics Connect 600 and Sinamics Connect 500 enable high-voltage motors and medium-voltage converters to be simply linked up to Sidrive IQ. With the latest generation of its Remote Services and Condition Monitoring Services offered as part of the Sidrive IQ Services portfolio, Siemens is making available corrective measures for fixing faults, preventive maintenance offers and proactive services for optimized performance. The optimized drive systems are used in pumps, fans and compressors across different sectors of industry such as oil and gas, mining, food and beverage, water and wastewater, metals and cement.
Press Release | 31. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
€600 million for Berlin – Siemens signs future pact for Germany as an industrial location

    Siemens makes strong commitment for shaping the future of Germany as a location for industry
    Investment in the future of work in connection with manufacturing, researching, learning, and residential living in the new "Siemensstadt 2.0"
    Biggest single investment in the history of Siemens in Berlin 

A commitment to Berlin and Germany: at the time-honored Siemens industrial estate in Berlin's Spandau district, Siemens AG plans to make its biggest single investment ever in the company's history in Berlin. In the coming years, up to €600 million are to be invested in a new world of working and living: Siemensstadt ("Siemens City") 2.0. This project, which covers an area of 70 hectares, aims to transform this large industrial area into a modern, urban district of the future for a diverse range of purposes. A further goal is to strengthen selected key technologies and innovation fields in collaboration with the scientific and business communities. To make this possible, this section of Berlin is to become home to centers of research and expertise, to start-up incubators and to research and scientific institutes as well as their partner companies.
Press Release | 31. Oct 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens affirms its strong commitment to Africa with agreements and projects on electrification, industrialization, mobility and vocational training

    Highly efficient gas-fired combined cycle plant project in Lomé, Togo
    Siemens collaborates with the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on industrialization, education and training
    Siemens, Volkswagen (VW) and the German Development Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ) collaborating on e-mobility in Rwanda 

Siemens will partner even more closely with the African countries Togo, Egypt and Rwanda in the areas of power supply, industry, transport and vocational training. Egypt and Togo have signed the corresponding Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) on the sidelines of the G20 Compact with Africa Investment Summit in Berlin in the presence of Joe Kaeser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG, the Presidents of Egypt and Togo and further high-ranking personalities from these partner countries.
Press Release | 30. Oct 2018 | Siemens AG
VinFast selects Siemens' innovation platform to create a connected digital enterprise

    End-to-end digital innovation strategy can help VinFast achieve next generation eScooter and car production
    VinFast to utilize Teamcenter, the Teamcenter product costing solution, Tecnomatix and Siemens' MES to create a connected digital enterprise

News | 29. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Entry-level solution for motor management via Profinet

    Motor management system with new Simocode pro V PN GP basic unit, operator control block, and current measuring and multifunction module
    Simple integration of motor management solutions in Profinet networks
    Suitable for direct-on-line, reversing, and star-delta (wye-delta) starters and for controlling soft starters
    Monitors, protects and controls constant-speed motors with predictive maintenance functions.

Siemens has extended the Simocode pro motor management system to include a new basic unit for standard motor applications. Simocode pro V PN GP has a Profinet connection, which facilitates easy entry into Profinet communication. The basic unit is supplemented by a current measuring module. It can be optionally extended by an operator control block and a multifunction module – with additional inputs/outputs, and temperature and ground fault detection. The new compact system for easy, economical motor management is suitable for direct-on-line, reversing, and star-delta (wye-delta) starters as well as for controlling a soft starter.
Press Release | 26. Oct 2018 |
Cost-effective energy production - Siemens supplies components for hot water and electricity production system
News | 26. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens campus in Munich-Perlach to field-test autonomous driving

    Research project for an optimized transport system (OTS)
    Mobility offering for the first and last mile
    Testing the interplay of intelligent infrastructure, cloud-based software services and autonomous electric vehicles

Siemens Mobility is launching a field test for autonomous driving at the Siemens campus in Munich-Perlach, Germany. Working with partners IAV GmbH, Institute for Climate Protection, Energy and Mobility (IKEM) e.V., emm Solutions GmbH, UTB Projektmanagement GmbH and the Technical University of Munich (TUM), Siemens Mobility is initiating a research project and field test. The test route runs through the campus and enables traffic simulation in a variety of real-life situations.
Press Release | 25. Oct 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens develops digital transformation roadmap to Steklarna Hrastnik

    Detailed digitalization roadmap including schedule, technology recommendations and return-on-investment data
    By implementing the roadmap, Steklarna Hrastnik aims to improve its productivity, quality and efficiency

The digital transformation in the glass industry is in full swing. The Digital Enterprise portfolio from Siemens encompasses integrated hardware, software and services for enterprises of all sizes, and allows companies across the glass industry to leverage the benefits of Industrie 4.0 already today. As part of a joint digitalization consulting project, Siemens and Steklarna Hrastnik collaborated to create a detailed strategy for the glass manufacturer’s digital transformation over the next five years.
Press Release | 25. Oct 2018 |
Abengoa selects Siemens' compressor train for renewable fuels plant in Nevada

    Fulcrum's municipal solid waste-to-fuels plant will contribute to a sustainable future

Abengoa, a Spanish engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contractor, recently selected Siemens to supply a compressor train for Fulcrum BioEnergy's Sierra BioFuels Plant that will use gasification technology to produce low-carbon fuels from municipal solid waste. The plant will be located in Storey County outside of Reno Nevada and is expected to produce approximately 11 million gallons of biofuel per year that will be used by the aviation industry.
Press Release | 24. Oct 2018 | Gas and Power
A practical approach to study - University uses Siemens PLM software solutions in engineering courses
News | 22. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens in landmark MoU to repower Iraq, support economic prosperity

    Agreement to cooperate with Ministry of Electricity of Iraq to add 11 gigawatts of power generation capacity in four years
    Roadmap proposes cost savings in billions of USD and generating additional electricity 24/7 for 23 million people
    Plan envisions creating tens of thousands of jobs
    Focuses on energy infrastructure, education, anti-corruption and financing

Siemens and the Ministry of Electricity of the Republic of Iraq have entered a milestone agreement to seek the implementation of the company's roadmap for repowering Iraq. Signed by Qasim Al-Fahdawi, Minister of Electricity, and Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG, the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) will examine a series of short, medium and long-term plans to meet the reconstruction goals of Iraq and support the country's economic development.
Press Release | 22. Oct 2018 | Siemens AG
Efficient debris removal - Chinese gold mine uses Siemens drive solution to remove debris
News | 19. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility invests in Padam to enhance intermodal transportation portfolio

    Padam is a fast-growing Software as a Service (SaaS) provider for on-demand transport
    Padam closes an investment round with strategic investment of Siemens Mobility
    Enhances Siemens Mobility's intelligent infrastructure portfolio for intermodal mobility
    The transaction was executed in October 2018
    Padam remains a standalone, founder-led company 

Siemens Mobility and Padam, headquartered in Paris, France and a fast-growing turnkey AI-powered technology provider that operates on-demand transport (microtransit) services, are launching a partnership to enhance demand responsive transportation options and improve passenger experience. The investment will enhance Siemens Mobility's intelligent infrastructure portfolio that is focused on intermodal transportation, offering public transportation operators a first/last mile transportation solution that optimizes vehicle utilization at lower costs. Siemens has made a significant investment in Padam. Both companies have agreed to maintain confidentiality regarding financial details of the deal. Padam's white-label platform, Padam Live, is a software platform that is rebranded by public transportation operators to integrate microtransit services. It offers cities worldwide an advanced management system.
Press Release | 18. Oct 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Automated water level control - Flood protection on North Sea peninsula based on Siemens automation technology
News | 17. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
García to seek new challenges, López named new CEO of Siemens Spain

    Miguel Ángel López to take on new role as of December 1, 2018
    Rosa García García to leave Siemens by mutual agreement
    López also to succeed García in chairing SGRE's Board of Directors

In a broader change of responsibilities in Spain, Siemens announced today that Miguel Ángel López, currently Chief Financial Officer of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE), will succeed Rosa García García at the top of Siemens S.A. in Madrid. After having successfully carried Siemens Spain forward for the past seven years, García (53) has, in agreement with Siemens, decided to pursue opportunities outside the company. She will facilitate a proper hand-over to her successor on December 1, 2018, and serve in an advisory capacity until the end of the year.
Press Release | 16. Oct 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens and Bentley Systems announce PlantSight digital twin cloud services

    Solution enables up-to-date, as-operated digital twins − synchronizing the real plant and its engineering representations − for more efficient process plant operations
    Integration of different kinds of data sources to create holistic digital context for aligned digital components

Siemens and Bentley Systems announced today the introduction of PlantSight, resulting from development together based on their highly complementary software portfolios. PlantSight is a digital solution to benefit customers through more efficient plant operations. PlantSight enables as-operated and up-to-date digital twins which synchronize with both physical reality and engineering data, creating a holistic digital context for consistently understood digital components across disparate data sources, for any operating plant. Plant operators benefit from high trustworthiness and quality of information for continuous operational readiness and more reliability.
Press Release | 15. Oct 2018 |
Well set up for steel processing - Plant retrofit with Siemens technology enables reliable production of steel products
News | 15. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Egypt selects Siemens to operate and maintain world's largest combined-cycle power plants
• Agreement is Siemens' largest O&M deal in terms of power generated • Sites to serve as model for other utilities in reliability and efficiency• Digital services and data analytics to optimize plants and ensure reliabilityIn a new milestone agreement, Siemens announced today that it has been selected by the Egyptian Electricity Holding Company (EEHC) to provide comprehensive operation and maintenance services (O&M) for the Beni Suef, New Capital and Burullus power plants, for the next eight years. The agreement, which is the largest ever for the Siemens Power Generation Services in terms of power generated, includes the implementation of the company's Omnivise digital service solutions.Each of the three 4.8GW power plants is considered to be the largest gas-fired combined-cycle plant ever built and operated. Together the plants represent approximately 40 percent of Egypt's power capacity, at the time of signing contracts, generating 14.4GW – enough to supply 40 million Egyptians with electricity."The new agreement aligns with our energy production goals to ensure sustainable growth and maximum reliability and efficiency of new and existing combined-cycle generating facilities," said Eng. Gaber El Desouki, Chairman of the EEHC. "Strategically, it makes sense for us to enlist a single trusted and credible service provider to help operate and manage our large-scale power assets."The multi-year agreement covers all on-site equipment including 24 gas turbines, twelve steam turbines, 36 generators, 24 heat recovery steam generators and three 500 kV gas-insulated switchgear systems. "The new agreement reconfirms our focus to work with Egypt on developing the right mix of solutions to support the country's dynamic needs. It also underscores the tangible cost benefits that digital technologies can bring to the power industry," said Gianluigi Di Giovanni, Senior Executive Vice President of Siemens Power Generation Services in the Middle East and North Africa. "As a key development partner to the country we are committed to contributing to the sustainable growth, diversification and efficiency of the Egyptian energy industry." Siemens will also implement its services portfolio to improve asset visibility, reliability and availability of the three power plants. Data from the plant operation will be collected, analyzed and transformed into actionable insights such as accurate diagnostics, troubleshooting and condition forecasting, improving plant reliability and reducing downtime. Additionally, the data processed can help to balance maintenance costs, optimize inspection intervals and provide valuable insights into operational risks.Building on more than 30 years of experience in power plant operation and maintenance, Siemens currently manages more than 35 GW in 17 countries. The company's global resources and fleet expertise enable it to provide complement plant services and management, along with sharing best practices and technical knowledge with power plant owners.
Feature | 15. Oct 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens and Bentley Systems Announce Integrated Asset Performance Management (APM) Solution for Power Plants

    Combines Bentley's advanced asset performance software capabilities and Siemens' complementary power generation expertise
    Delivers enhanced equipment availability, reliability, and cost efficiency

Siemens and Bentley Systems have announced a joint technology and service solution, consisting of their complementary offerings, to speed up the digitalization of power plants and provide intelligent analytics with a range of innovative offerings and managed services solutions. The new service, to be hosted on Siemens' cloud-based open IoT operating system, MindSphere, will combine Bentley's advanced asset performance software capabilities with Siemens' complementary technology and service expertise to empower power plant owners to take full advantage of digitalization, which helps improve maintenance operations and planning.
Press Release | 15. Oct 2018 |
Digital brewing process - Craft breweries benefit from digitalization with modular Siemens automation
News | 12. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Environmentally friendly energy - Hydroelectric power station operator modernizes historic plant with Siemens solution
News | 10. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Making optimum design learnable - College course on numerical flow mechanics based on Siemens software
News | 09. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens to showcase sector-specific solutions and future technologies for Industrie 4.0

    Integrated Digital Enterprise portfolio for machine and plant builders as well as end customers
    Concrete digitalization use cases from chemical, pharmaceutical, aerospace, battery, food and beverage industries
    Siemens backs future technologies such as artificial intelligence and edge computing
    New features for MindSphere from visualization to data analysis

At the "SPS IPC Drives" 2018, Siemens will be presenting a range of sector-specific solutions and future technologies to enable the digital transformation of today's discrete and process industries. The central focus of the over 4,000 square meter Siemens booth will be on new products, solutions and services from the company's Digital Enterprise portfolio designed to enable the merger between the physical and digital worlds. The solutions on show will allow not only machine and plant builders but also end customers of any size – working in areas as diverse as the chemical, aerospace, battery, food and beverage industries – to boost the flexibility, efficiency, quality, security and speed of their operations. To get to grips with the rising complexity of production processes and leverage the many associated benefits, Siemens is continuously expanding and strengthening its portfolio with the integration of groundbreaking future technologies, from artificial intelligence to edge computing.
Press Release | 09. Oct 2018 |
Siemens Mobility USA
Siemens Mobility, Inc., a fully owned subsidiary of Siemens AG, is a leading international provider of intelligent mobility solutions that offer guaranteed availability, optimized capacity and enhanced passenger experience. The company’s business includes rail rolling stock, rail automation, intelligent traffic systems, traffic telematics systems as well as rail electrification. The portfolio also covers turnkey mobility projects and tailored financing solutions. Siemens Mobility, Inc. draws on more than 160 years of expertise and experience in transportation. The company combines innovations with comprehensive industry know-how, a global network of recognized experts in over 40 countries, and the solid financial base of Siemens AG.
Feature | 08. Oct 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Prizes awarded to winning contestants of the Siemens “Global University Challenge – Automation meets Edge” in Nuremberg
News | 08. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility, Inc.'s roadside unit is first to receive OmniAir Certification

    Siemens' Sitraffic ESCoS roadside unit set to become a new industry standard for V2X technology

Siemens Mobility, Inc. is pleased to announce it has received OmniAir Certification for its Sitraffic ESCoS roadside unit (RSU), the first roadside unit to receive OmniAir's commercial, connected vehicle certification. Siemens' RSU is one of the few RSUs today that meet U.S. Department of Transportation FHWA specification version 4.1. Now with OmniAir's certification, this roadside unit is well-positioned to become the established standard and a key component for V2X device communications today.
Press Release | 07. Oct 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Consistent beer quality in digital breweries - Siemens at BrauBeviale 2018
News | 04. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Well ventilated - Blast furnace blowers in South Korea modernized with Siemens technology
News | 04. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Expanding the flagship fleet: Deutsche Bahn orders additional ICE 4 Trains

    Order for 18 7-car trainsets and 50 power cars
    Delivery to begin in summer 2021
    Power car principle provides maximum flexibility

New trains for growing number of long-distance passengers: Deutsche Bahn (DB) is expanding its fleet and has ordered an additional eighteen 7-car ICE 4 trainsets and 50 more power cars from Siemens Mobility. With these new power cars, 50 ICE 4 trainsets, previously ordered in a 12-car configuration, can be extended to 13 cars. This flexible configuration is made possible by the train’s innovative traction drive technology and its completely new train control system. Delivery of the ordered 7-car trainsets is expected to begin in the summer of 2023. Delivery of the 13-car trainsets will begin after delivery of the 50 12-car trains is completed in 2021. The order has a total value of around €610 million. Bombardier Transportation will supply approximately one-third of the order.
Press Release | 04. Oct 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Mobility and Thales to deliver signaling system for Grand Paris Express future metro lines

    Metro Automation for Paris' future metro lines 15, 16 and 17 awarded
    The three new lines include 125 kilometers of tracks and 50 stations
    The project entails 12 phased sections and commissioning by 2030
    Most advanced signaling technology to equip 159 passenger trains and 27 work trains
    Associated maintenance services for 30 years

The Société du Grand Paris (SGP), which owns the Grand Paris Express project, awarded the Siemens Mobility and Thales consortium with the delivery of the Automated Train Control system that uses wireless Communications-Based Train Control (CBTC) technology and the Operating Control Centers for the future new lines 15, 16 and 17, which will be completed by 2030. Siemens Mobility will design and implement the most advanced generation of its CBTC fully automated technology. It will complete the integration of the entire transportation system. Thales will design and implement the Operating Control Centers (centralized supervision of train traffic, energy systems, auxiliary equipment and digital information systems), as well as trackside equipment and a secure communication network.
Press Release | 04. Oct 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens to deliver complete wastewater treatment system for new propylene oxide-styrene monomer plant in China
Siemens Water Solutions received an order for a complete wastewater treatment system for Tianjin Bohua Chemical Development's (a subsidiary of Bohai Chemical Group) new propylene oxide-styrene monomer (POSM) plant. The plant, located at the Nangang Industrial Zone in northern China's Tianjin, will have a production capacity of 200,000 tons per year of propylene oxide (PO) and 450,000 tons per year of styrene monomer (SM).
Press Release | 02. Oct 2018 |
Siemens and Southern Idaho Solid Waste announce commissioning of landfill gas-to-energy project

    Siemens gas engines generating electrical power from landfill gas to provide energy for approximately 2,000 homes in Idaho
    Two engines convert 1,000 tons of landfill waste daily into energy
    Project marks successful use of Siemens' highly-energy-efficient engines to capture and use methane

Siemens and Southern Idaho Solid Waste (SISW) recently announced the successful commissioning of two SGE-56HM gas engines that are providing environmentally friendly electrical power for a landfill gas-to-energy project at the Milner Butte Landfill in Burley, Idaho. Siemens' gas capture engines are helping to convert 1,000 tons of landfill waste daily into energy but SISW officials expect that amount to increase in the near future.
Press Release | 02. Oct 2018 |
Spot-on lighting design. Stage lighting manufacturer relies on Siemens PLM Software in design phase
News | 01. Oct 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens busbars receive DNV certificate

    Conformity statement confirms high safety and reliability standards for use in wind turbines
    System can now be used in photovoltaic systems thanks to expanded product family

The DNV GL classification company awarded Siemens the certificate for its busbar trunking system from the Sivacon 8PS product family at the international Wind Energy trade fair in Hamburg. The CS-03832 conformity statement confirms that the LDM system meets high standards of safety and reliability. Especially when it comes to high current intensities, busbar trunking systems are an excellent alternative to classic cable installations. The busbars can be installed in very limited space and ensure high availability and low maintenance. During operation, they feature low fire load and have a PVC and halogen-free design. The systems use solid aluminum as conductors, a material that costs much less than the copper used in cables. It can also easily be recycled after use.
Press Release | 01. Oct 2018 |
Siemens closes Mendix acquisition, extending industry leading digital innovation platform

    Siemens to accelerate investments and growth in Mendix's organic business and verticals, fueling faster go-to-market expansion
    Mendix will continue building on its heritage of openness and extensibility, including its partner ecosystem
    Siemens to create SaaS solutions and extensions, leveraging joint Siemens and Mendix ecosystems and partnerships
    Combination of Siemens' Digital Enterprise Software, MindSphere and Mendix extends industry leading digital innovation platform

Siemens today closed the acquisition of Mendix, eight weeks after the transaction was announced as part of the company’s Vision 2020+ strategy.
Press Release | 01. Oct 2018 |
Siemens at GMRC Gas Machinery Conference 2018
During the conference, Siemens introduced the new SGT-400 PL Compressor Package, a highly integrated, turnkey gas turbine and centrifugal compressor solution. With field-proven, efficient, and reliable components, this new package offers a single-lift, one baseplate configuration for fast deployment, DLE combustion technology for emissions compliance even at low loads, and expert, 24x7 support for responsive service.
Kansas City, Missouri | 30. Sep 2018 - 03. Oct 2018 | Gas and Power Save the date
Fit for tunnel construction - Machine builder opts for Siemens drive solutions for giant tunnel project
News | 28. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Join us on the journey towards the digital enterprise – Siemens at the glasstec 2018
News | 27. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Continuous, maintenance-free operation - Siemens drive system ensures efficient gas extraction in China with high availability
News | 26. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens presents the control center of the future

    DynaGridCenter research project successfully completed with partners
    Dynamic control center indispensable to a successful energy transition
    Brings increasing grid dynamics under control and maintains grid stability
    Automated recommendations for action prevent blackouts and damage to plants

With the DynaGridCenter project, Siemens worked alongside partners in science and research to develop the next generation of grid control centers. For the first time, assistant systems visualize dynamic processes that bring the energy transition to the power grid and provide targeted recommendations for actions to optimize the grids and prevent blackouts. "In the future, we'll need control centers that can independently regulate the highly dynamic power grid with an autopilot functionality and keep it stable," said Prof. Dr. Rainer Krebs, head of the Consulting Unit for the Operation and Protection of Power Grids in the Siemens Energy Management Division. "The dynamic control center is therefore an indispensable part of a successful energy transition. It controls the increasing grid dynamics, maintains grid stability, and provides specific recommendations for action to prevent blackouts." The control center of the future will therefore become a key component of the power grid action plan that was introduced by the German federal government in August 2018.
Press Release | 25. Sep 2018 |
Siemens presents the control center of the future
With the DynaGridCenter project, Siemens worked alongside partners in science and research to develop the next generation of grid control centers. For the first time, assistant systems visualize dynamic processes that bring the energy transition to the power grid and provide targeted recommendations for actions to optimize the grids and prevent blackouts.
Feature | 25. Sep 2018 | Smart Infrastructure
Henning Sandfort to head product business of Siemens Building Technologies

    Sandfort will be the new CEO of the Control Products and Systems business unit of the Siemens Building Technologies Division

Effective October 1, 2018, the beginning of the next fiscal year, Henning Sandfort (42) will be the new CEO of the Control Products and Systems (CPS) business unit. Sandfort will succeed Uwe Frank, the current head of the product business of Building Technologies. Frank will retire at the end of 2018. Until now, Sandfort has been in charge of the Systems and Room Automation product segment within CPS.
Press Release | 25. Sep 2018 |
Agreement at Siemens on measures to boost competitiveness

    Reconciliation of interests signed for Power and Gas Division and Process Industries and Drives Division in Germany
    Power and Gas to achieve cost savings of about €500 million worldwide, of which €270 million are to be saved in Germany
    Capacity and structure adjustments can now begin in Germany

Siemens and the company's Central Works Council have signed a reconciliation of interests based on the framework agreement reached in May. The goal is to increase the competitiveness of the Power and Gas Division (PG) and the Process Industries and Drives Division (PD). At PG alone, costs are to be reduced – as originally planned – by about €500 million worldwide, with €270 million of this amount to be saved in Germany. Around 2,900 jobs will be cut in Germany instead of the roughly 3,400 announced last November. This reduction in job cuts is due, above all, to the continuation of the location in Görlitz, Germany, and the retention of activities at the Dynamowerk, a Siemens production facility in Berlin. However, the measures are not restricted to capacity adjustments alone. Instead, they are primarily designed to achieve structural improvements and systematically sharpen the company's focus on the technologies of the future.
Press Release | 24. Sep 2018 | Siemens AG
Shifting processes up a gear - Automotive supplier solves complex challenges with Siemens PLM Software
News | 24. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility and the City of Düsseldorf jointly open digital automotive test track

    Siemens Mobility provides intelligent road infrastructure including, Road Side Unit (RSU), communications networking and telematics for near-real-time exchange of information between vehicles and infrastructure
    Facility uses automated and connected vehicle technology to prepare for tomorrow's roads

Today, the city of Düsseldorf officially opened a cutting-edge automated and connected vehicle test track, which is a 20 km road dedicated to the advancement of connected and autonomous vehicle technology. Featuring Siemens Mobility technology, the digital test field highlights the latest intelligent traffic technologies, which is preparing the region for automated and autonomous traffic of the future.
Press Release | 24. Sep 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Agreement at Siemens on measures to boost competitiveness
Siemens and the company's Central Works Council have signed a reconciliation of interests based on the framework agreement reached in May. The goal is to increase the competitiveness of the Power and Gas Division (PG) and the Process Industries and Drives Division (PD). At PG alone, costs are to be reduced – as originally planned – by about €500 million worldwide, with €270 million of this amount to be saved in Germany. Around 2,900 jobs will be cut in Germany instead of the roughly 3,400 announced last November. This reduction in job cuts is due, above all, to the continuation of the location in Görlitz, Germany, and the retention of activities at the Dynamowerk, a Siemens production facility in Berlin. However, the measures are not restricted to capacity adjustments alone. Instead, they are primarily designed to achieve structural improvements and systematically sharpen the company's focus on the technologies of the future. "The market for fossil power generation has contracted substantially. Against the backdrop of this structural change, the agreement we've reached is critical to improving our competitiveness. We now have to implement the measures quickly," said Lisa Davis, member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG. "In the past few months, market forecasts have again worsened considerably. The job cuts agreed upon with the employee representatives are only one of the measures urgently necessary to improve our cost position. With the reconciliation of interests, we've also reached an agreement on structural changes and new opportunities for several locations," said Janina Kugel, Chief Human Resources Officer and member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG.
Munich | 23. Sep 2018 - 23. Sep 2018 | Siemens AG Save the date
Largest of their type in China - Siemens supplies high-voltage motors for Chinese steel and iron works
News | 19. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and E.ON reach milestone with 3D-printed burner for SGT-700 gas turbine
Siemens and E.ON have reached a significant milestone in the area of 3D-printing for the energy sector. The world's first 3-D printed burner for an SGT-700 gas turbine has been in operation for one year at E.ON's combined cycle power plant in Philippsthal in the German state of Hessen and the results are impressive. The burner has been operating for over 8,000 hours with no reported issues.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2018 |
Siemens Mobility digitalizes large part of DB Cargo freight car fleet

    Siemens Mobility equips 30,000 freight cars with smart sensors
    Digitalization improves customer service and transport efficiency in rail logistics 

DB Cargo AG, Europe's leading rail freight carrier, has commissioned Siemens Mobility to digitalize a large part of its freight car fleet. A total of 30,000 freight cars will be equipped with the CTmobile freight sensor solution. With this system, DB Cargo can directly and continuously determine the cars' location. The sensor also provides information about load conditions. The freight cars will be equipped over a period of three years. Siemens Mobility will operate the system for six years, monitoring data acquisition and data flows through its central in-house CT server. The contract includes an option to equip up to 50,000 freight cars.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2018 | Siemens Mobility
More efficiency and flexibility through new Sinumerik Integrate applications

    At AMB, Siemens will be demonstrating new applications for Sinumerik Integrate
    Illustration of the whole tool cycle with Manage MyResources
    Optimize MyProgramming /NX CAM Editor revolutionizes CAM machine integration
    Consistent digitalization solutions increase efficiency, flexibility and competitiveness

Siemens is presenting two new applications for the open digitalization platform Sinumerik Integrate under the banner "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing – Implement now!" at AMB 2018. Using the Manage MyResources application, the complete tool cycle can be displayed for use in the CAD/CAM CNC chain. This provides the customer with a range of benefits including increased tool life. When combined with Manage MyResources, the user gains direct access to a set of NX CAM parameters using the second new application, Optimize MyProgramming /NX CAM Editor on Sinumerik, and can easily optimize and modify the NC programs generated there. The two new applications contribute to the highest possible level of tool availability and therefore to avoiding machine down time. Consistent digitalization solutions such as Sinumerik Integrate allow businesses in the machine tool industry to increase flexibility and production efficiency significantly, to reduce their development and launch times considerably, and thus to improve their competitiveness on the global market.
Press Release | 18. Sep 2018 |
Machine tool industry benefits from new applications for MindSphere

    Analyze MyPerformance /OEE Monitor supplies data to increase plant efficiency
    Manage MyMachines now available on the latest version of MindSphere
    Manage MyMachines /Remote provides remote access to CNC

Siemens is presenting new applications for the open, cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere specifically for the machine tool industry at AMB 2018 in Stuttgart. This includes the Analyze MyPerformance /OEE Monitor application which is now available on the latest version of MindSphere. Analyze MyPerformance /OEE Monitor allows users to capture machine data for configuring important parameters, to carry out availability and utilization analyses, and to compare estimated productivity with actual results – customer-specific OEE calculations are also available. In addition to this, users can also produce a shift calendar with the application which allows the machine utilization to be calculated even more accurately. This makes production planning significantly easier.
Press Release | 18. Sep 2018 |
Updates for Sinumerik 828D and 840D sl controls to optimize milling processes

    New version SW 4.8 SP3 release for Sinumerik 828Dand Display Manager for Sinumerik 840D sI
    External PC remote control for 828D enables operation via external PC with Sinumerik Operate
    828D operation simplified by multi-touch display and side screen
    Second control channel and Collision Avoidance Eco simplify handling
    New Display Manager for 840D sI enables integration of standard and machine-specific functions into user interfaces

Siemens has updated its proven Sinumerik 828D and 840D sI machine tool controls. For 828D, a software update SW 4.8 SP3 with Panel Processing Unit (PPU) 4 has now been released. Users benefit not only from exceptionally robust hardware but also improved connectivity through the ability to access central data and programs, increasing operating safety. Another feature of the update is an external PC remote control facility for the simplified connection of other authorized PCs via Virtual Private Computing (VPC). In addition, the application for MindSphere ManageMyMachines now enables connection of Sinumerik 828D controls to the cloud based open IotT operating system MindSphere. For exceptionally simple operation, Siemens offers Smart Operation, a robust multi-touch display used in conjunction with a side screen. The CNC Sinumerik 828D now also offers a second control channel for use during milling operations, making available additional integration and control possibilities for automation systems or handling robots. Another invaluable feature is the Collision Avoidance Eco, which works on the basis of protected areas and distances which can be configured by the user. There is also a new update designed to make life more convenient for users of the Sinumerik 840D sl. The new Sinumerik Operate Display Manager allows the operator to fully leverage the possibilities offered by larger widescreen monitors, as both standard and machine-specific functions can be integrated into the user interface. These innovations allow rapid and comprehensive access to all the relevant data and allow more efficient, simpler machine control, as well as speeding up and simplifying process workflows. This saves both time and costs throughout the entire milling process.
Press Release | 18. Sep 2018 |
Sinumerik Edge: Siemens presents the first Edge applications for machine tools

    Edge application Optimize MyMachining /Trochoidal allows real-time data processing for high availability and productivity
    Siemens Industrial Edge closes the gap between local and cloud computing in the industrial sector
    Sinumerik Edge facilitates high-frequency control data processing 

As part of Siemens Industrial Edge, Siemens is launching applications for Sinumerik Edge, the machine-level platform specially designed for the machine tool industry, at AMB 2018 in Stuttgart. This is the first opportunity to see the Edge application Optimize MyMachining /Trochoidal for use in trochoidal milling.
Press Release | 18. Sep 2018 |
Siemens highlights connected mobility at the InnoTrans 2018

    Motto of the company's show: "Shaping connected mobility"
    Fair highlights: Digital Station, Interlocking in the Cloud and new Velaro Novo high-speed train with 30 percent lower energy consumption
    Digital solutions make infrastructures intelligent, improve passenger experience, guarantee availability and increase sustainability over the entire lifecycle

Under the motto "Shaping connected mobility" at the InnoTrans, Siemens Mobility is presenting digital innovations in an increasingly networked "total mobility system." The solutions will make rail transport even more efficient, safer and reliable.
Press Release | 18. Sep 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens at the AMB Stuttgart 2018
The AMB, the International Exhibition for Metalworking, was open from September 18 to 22, 2018 in Stuttgart. Under the motto "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing - Implement now!", Siemens demonstrated to users and manufacturers of machine tools how end-to-end digitalization solutions work from the machine tool right up to the corporate management level and the cloud.
Stuttgart | 18. Sep 2018 - 20. Aug 2019 | Digital Industries Save the date
Siemens at Turbomachinery & Pump Symposium (TPS) 2018
Siemens showcased its comprehensive oil and gas solutions at the Turbomachinery & Pump Symposium (TPS), September 18 – 20, 2018 at the George R. Brown Convention Center in Houston, TX. Oil and gas companies have some of the most complex physical and technical operational challenges of any business on the planet. To manage risks, control costs and optimize asset performance, oil and gas operators increasingly rely on digital technologies and analytics to improve efficiencies and safety for all aspects of oil and gas production, distribution and use. Leveraging 170 years of technological and engineering expertise, with extensive experience in operational technology (OT) and information technology (IT), Siemens' suite of innovative technologies deliver cutting-edge hard and software capabilities for equipment and solutions that enhance efficiency, predictability, reliability and safety for its customers.
Houston, TX | 17. Sep 2018 - 19. Sep 2018 | Gas and Power Save the date
Siemens Mobility at the InnoTrans 2018
The world's largest trade fair for transport technology – InnoTrans – was being held in Berlin from September 18 to 21. Once again, Siemens has showcased its products in Hall 4.2 and in the outdoor exhibition area.Digitalization is fundamentally transforming the mobility industry. It is improving the availability of vehicles and infrastructures, optimizing operations, and reducing efforts and costs. Reflecting these changes, digital innovations in a networked "Complete Mobility System" was the focus of Siemens' presentation at InnoTrans 2018. Following the motto "Shaping connected mobility," Siemens has showcased new, intelligent solutions that will make rail transport more efficient, safer and more reliable.
Munich | 17. Sep 2018 - 20. Sep 2018 | Siemens AG, Siemens Mobility Save the date
Smooth operator - Wood sanding machine manufacturer relies on intuitive operating concepts from Siemens
News | 17. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens at Gastech 2018
Siemens joined Gastech 2018, which took place in Barcelona, Sept. 17 – 20. In its 45th year, the world renowned event was a highly regarded gathering for upstream, midstream and downstream gas and LNG professionals. Siemens used the occasion to highlight its integrated Gas-to-Power (G2P) solutions, through which the company is playing an integral role in increasing utilization of natural gas—a highly abundant, cost-effective fuel—as a feed stock for power plants. Sessions featured Siemens speakers which are outlined below.
Barcelona | 17. Sep 2018 - 20. Sep 2018 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power, Financial Services Save the date
Machine tool retrofit to increase productivity, user convenience and safety

    "PCU Retrofit for Sinumerik 840D" service offered for machine tools with a Sinumerik 840D pl controller
    PCU-based (Panel Control Unit) controller updated
    After a short retrofitting time, equipment is ready again for immediate use

The "PCU Retrofit for Sinumerik 840D" service is offered by Siemens to modernize machine tools with a Sinumerik 840D pl controller, as an alternative to a new purchase. This can be significantly more cost-effective than investing in new equipment. In the retrofit, the PCU-based (Panel Control Unit) controller is updated and obsolete hardware and software is replaced. Users then benefit from long-term spare parts availability, as well as greater IT security thanks to the current operating system. In addition, the latest HMI Advanced (human-machine interface) software provides extended functionality and increased convenience in operation and monitoring. With the retrofit service, users can experience an appreciable improvement in the performance of their machine tools and in the productivity of their facility.
Press Release | 16. Sep 2018 |
Press condition at a glance - Siemens offers a new solution package comprising products and expert analytics for monitoring presses
News | 14. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens Mobility wins digital services order for Singapore mass transit system

    Siemens Mobility will manage contract from the Singapore MindSphere Application Center
    Rail Enterprise Asset Management System to enhance availability

Siemens Mobility and consortium partner ST Engineering Electronics Limited have been awarded an 18.8 million Singapore dollars contract by the Singapore Land Transport Authority (LTA) to develop and implement a Rail Enterprise Asset Management System (REAMS). This digital program will be managed from the MindSphere Application Center in Singapore, one of Siemens' digitalization hubs. The facility was the first to integrate multi-disciplinary digitalization specialists from different Siemens businesses.
Press Release | 13. Sep 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Optimum overall efficiency - Compressor manufacturer relies on Siemens drive solution for new blower model
News | 12. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
EOS and Siemens intensify cooperation around industrial 3D printing

    Successful strategic cooperation further expanded in the areas software, automation and drive technology and AM application

Press Release | 12. Sep 2018 |
Siemens intensifies collaboration with SME to implement Industry 4.0

    At the "Forum Deutscher Mittelstand", representatives of well-known companies discuss strategies for the future viability of small to medium-sized enterprises
    New forms of collaboration between companies are essential for the digital transformation in the manufacturing and process industries
    Technical prerequisites for digitalization in industry are in place: SMEs can make targeted use of their resources 

For the implementation of Industry 4.0, Siemens is relying on even more intensive collaboration with small to medium-sized companies. "Small to medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the German economy. That's why the digital transformation of small and medium-sized companies is essential for the future viability of Germany as a business location," explained Klaus Helmrich, Managing Board Member of Siemens AG, at the "Forum Deutscher Mittelstand" (German SME Forum) in Stuttgart. "This requires increased collaboration between companies of different sizes - from start-ups to medium-sized companies to large corporations". During the conference, representatives of numerous well-known German companies from the machine and plant manufacturing industry, discussed strategies to ensure the future viability of small and medium-sized businesses.
Press Release | 12. Sep 2018 |
New universal dimmer for all lamp types and LEDs

    Continuous dimming of LEDs and other lamps
    Powerful lighting control of up to 1000 volt-amperes (VA) and adjustable dimming sequences
    KNX DIN rail-mounted device with integrated front operating panel

The Siemens Building Technologies Division has updated its GAMMA instabus product line with the powerful new KNX based universal dimmer N 554. This universal dimmer can be used to control LED and other lamps up to a total 1000 VA, making it perfect for advanced lighting solutions in cinemas, theaters, opera houses, museums and hotels. The device features continuous dimming, the dimming sequences can be adjusted to the behaviors of the different lamps. Manual testing of the lighting installation from the integrated panel saves time.
Press Release | 11. Sep 2018 |
Ergonomically optimized design - US Institute executes ergonomics studies using Siemens PLM Software solutions
News | 10. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens wins major contract for grid connection at Triton Knoll offshore wind farm

    Siemens to design, supply and build onshore substation and offshore transformer modules (OTM®)
    Triton Knoll is the 10th UK offshore wind farm Siemens has connected to the mainland
    After completion Triton Knoll would be able to provide sufficient clean and sustainable power for the equivalent of 800,000 British homes

Siemens Energy Management has received an order to design, supply and build the grid connection for the Triton Knoll offshore wind farm by German customer Innogy SE. The wind farm, 32 kilometers (km) off the Lincolnshire coast, will have an installed generation capacity of circa 860 megawatts (MW) after its completion. Triton Knoll will be capable of providing sufficient clean and sustainable power for the equivalent of at least 800,000 British homes, making a significant contribution to the UK's renewable energy targets. Siemens will lead on the construction of a new four-hectare onshore substation at Bicker Fen, as well as offshore infrastructure, including two Offshore Transformer Modules (OTM ®). The Siemens OTM® is significantly smaller in size and weight compared to conventional alternating current platforms and highlight Siemens' commitment to helping power developers improve efficiencies and the delivery program.
Press Release | 10. Sep 2018 |
ÖBB and Siemens develop battery-powered train

    Service on non-electrified rail lines
    Passenger tests planned in second half of 2019
    Eco-friendlier operation with up to 50 percent less CO2 emissions than with diesel engines

Austrian Federal Railways (ÖBB) and Siemens Mobility are jointly investing in the future of passenger transport and are developing an electro-hybrid battery drive for trains. Today, both companies presented in Vienna the first result of this innovative pilot project, the prototype of the Desiro ML Cityjet eco. Operating as a battery-powered train, the Cityjet eco is an alternative for non-electrified rail lines primarily served at present with diesel-powered passenger trains. Battery operation can reduce CO2 emissions by up to 50 percent compared to diesels. Following extensive testing of the train, it is expected to first be used in passenger service in the second half of 2019. The prototype will be presented on track 1/400 in the outdoor exhibition area at the InnoTrans 2018, the leading international trade fair for transport technology, being held in Berlin on September 18-21.
Press Release | 10. Sep 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Highly efficient hydraulic presses with Siemens reluctance drive system
News | 07. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens officially opens RRX maintenance depot

    Rail Service Center inaugurated in Dortmund-Eving, Germany
    Digitalized service and maintenance of RXX trainsets for 32 years
    Contract specifies over 99 percent availability of RRX trains 

Today, after one-and-a-half years of construction, Siemens Mobility is officially inaugurating the new maintenance depot for the Rhine-Ruhr Express (RRX). In the future, 75 employees in the Rail Service Center in Dortmund-Eving will service and maintain the 82 electric RXX Desiro HC multiple-unit trains for a period of 32 years. The digitalized and paperless concept ensures that the trains' contractually agreed availability of over 99 percent can be guaranteed.
Press Release | 06. Sep 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens secures excellent bond conditions with strong demand

    Demand for bonds with a total value of €2.75 billion and maturities of five, nine and twelve years 2.5 times higher than issue volume
    Placement directly after summer lull secures favorable financing conditions

After a five-year absence, Siemens has made an impressive return to the euro capital market. For its new bonds, the company generated very strong demand of €6.8 billion. Siemens issued bonds with a total value of €2.75 billion and maturities of five, nine and twelve years. The high demand enabled Siemens to obtain very good interest-rate conditions over all maturities. At the time of price fixing, the average issue yield for all three maturities was 20 basis points (0.2 percentage points) below the initial indications.
Press Release | 06. Sep 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens and ACM announce expanded partnership to advance the next generation of connected vehicles

    Siemens Intelligent Traffic Systems will provide connected vehicle technology and smart traffic control infrastructure to the American Center for Mobility for automated and connected vehicle testing.

The American Center for Mobility (ACM) is excited to announce its second partnership with Siemens. Siemens Intelligent Traffic Systems (ITS) will now provide approximately $1 million in state-of-the-art ITS infrastructure, software, and engineering support to aid ACM in developing real-world testing and validation of connected and automated vehicles (CAVs). The newest agreement between Siemens and ACM adds physical infrastructure, software applications, and analytics to the Virtual Simulation and Testing solutions provided by Siemens PLM, announced earlier this year. Under the terms of this new agreement Siemens ITS will also have a seat on ACM’s Industry Advisory Board (IAB).
Press Release | 05. Sep 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens at SMM 2018
From September 4 to 7, Siemens was at SMM under the banner "Welcome to the Digitalization at Marine – implement now," with an exciting presentation showcasing the entry of digitalization into its marine portfolio. At Booth 318 in Hall B6, Siemens exhibited its broad spectrum of drive technology, automation and digitalization services and solutions for shipbuilding and marine operations. Highlights of this year's trade fair presentation included a virtual reality representation of the Siship as well as the smart web-based data application Siship EcoMAIN. Siemens also featured integrated solutions for the (partial) electrification of ships using uniform topology with the latest members of its Siship BlueDrive Family. As well as moving over functional features familiar from Siship EcoProp under the name Siship BlueDrive Eco, Siemens also offered visitors a glimpse into its own battery production and presented a partner in the field of fuel cell-based power supplies for the commercial sector.
Hamburg | 04. Sep 2018 - 07. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries Save the date
Vocational training at Siemens
Around 10,900 young men and women worldwide – of whom around 7,900 are in Germany – are currently enrolled in training or two-track programs at Siemens, making the industrial company one of the largest most innovative private providers of such programs in the world. Due to the great success of the German model, Siemens is increasingly offering two-track training, which combines theory and practice, to young people in countries outside Germany, including the U.S., Canada, Mexico, South Africa, India and the UK. These programs offer instruction in a wide range of commercial and, above all, technical fields. Courses are constantly being updated in a targeted fashion to prepare young people for the challenges of the future.Since the training year 2017, Siemens has integrated relevant digitalization topics, such as data analytics, software development and data security, in the company's curricula for all its apprenticeship and work-study programs. Didactic and methodological teaching approaches were also revised to accommodate the digital transformation of the programs’ training content and of the occupational subject matter. “Occupational training is foundational for our company’s future. One clear focus of our training program is on the responsible use of digital technologies, which are bringing enormous change to the working world and to society. For years now, we’ve been continuously adapting our training programs to new requirements, to digital content and to agile teaching methods in order to keep pace with these changes. In this way, we can ensure that our trainees are well prepared for the future,” said Thomas Leubner, who heads the company’s Learning and Education department. The success of the training system is also shown by the International Tech Apprenticeship@Siemens (ITA@S) program, which was established in 2012, back then under the name Europeans@Siemens. Young people are being sent to Berlin by the Siemens Regional Companies in their respective countries for dual educational training. In the past few years, however, an increasing number of participants have come from countries outside Europe. Consequently, the program now has a new name: ITA@S. Since the start of the vocational training in Berlin in 1891 more than 165,000 people have undergone training with Siemens in Germany alone. Siemens is also blazing new trails when it comes to recruiting trainees. In its “MINTfluencer” social-media campaign, short video clips star Siemens trainees as influencers. The campaign name is a word play on “MINT,” which is the German equivalent of science, technology, education and mathematics (STEM).
Feature | 04. Sep 2018 | Siemens AG
Siship BlueDrive: Scalable electric drive for reduced emissions

    Scalable uniform-topology power supply and drive solutions
    Customized configuration based on practically tested, standardized components such as Sinamics
    High level of resilience, availability and service friendliness
    Up to zero emissions depending on drive configuration

Siemens is expanding its portfolio of green ship propulsion systems by adding a new member to the Siship BlueDrive Family: Siship BlueDrive Eco. Besides by integrating battery systems produced in-house, the company is now able to offer a scalable and flexible solution to cover every propulsion requirement, with different power graduations for small to medium-sized propulsion systems from 5 kilowatts (kW) in auxiliary mode up to 5.5 megawatts (MW) for the main drive – from Siship BlueDrive Eco through to Siship BlueDrive PlusC. The solutions can be configured to individual customer specifications and are based on practically tested standardized components such as Sinamics converters. With its Siship BlueDrive, Siemens provides an efficient, environmentally friendly propulsion solution providing a high level of reliability, availability and service friendliness, with emissions down as low as zero depending on the drive configuration.
Press Release | 04. Sep 2018 |
Siemens Mobility presents world’s first autonomous tram

    Joint research and development project with ViP Verkehrsbetriebe Potsdam GmbH
    World premiere at InnoTrans 2018
    Demonstration runs in real traffic 

Siemens Mobility, together with ViP Verkehrsbetrieb Potsdam GmbH, will be presenting their research project on the world's first autonomous tram at InnoTrans 2018. On a six-kilometer section of the tram network in Potsdam, Germany, Siemens Mobility will be demonstrating a test tram driving autonomously in real traffic on September 18 through 21.
Press Release | 03. Sep 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Adding value with digitalization - Siemens at the Fachpack 2018
News | 03. Sep 2018 | Digital Industries
Training year begins at Siemens

    Around 2,170 apprentices and work-study program participants begin their professional life at 20 Siemens locations
    Training further aligned to the requirements of digitalization
    27 participants in international training program in Berlin

Around 2,170 young people will begin their vocational training next Monday at 20 Siemens locations in Germany alone. Siemens will be training about 1,530 for careers at the company, while a further 640 are from external partners. The ongoing digitalization of the work environment is playing an increasingly important role at Siemens – and in the company's training programs as well. What began in "apprentice corners" back in 1891 is being continued today at advanced, innovative training centers.
Press Release | 31. Aug 2018 | Siemens AG
Europe's best - Siemens sponsors EuroSkills the European vocational skills competition in Budapest
News | 31. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Iljin Electric develop the first SF6-free 170 kV gas-insulated switchgear with vacuum switching technology

    The world's first gas-insulated switchgear without SF6 for 170 kV / 50 kA
    Vacuum interrupter unit and purified air replace SF6 as the quenching/insulating medium

Siemens and Iljin Electric, a Korean manufacturer of electrical systems and gas-insulated switchgear (GIS), have signed an agreement to develop an SF6-free GIS for the 170 kilovolt (kV) voltage level. The technology has already been developed by Siemens for applications up to 145 kV. This GIS uses treated air, known as "Clean Air", instead of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) as the insulating medium. "This makes the GIS environmentally friendly and does not require any special precautions to be taken during manufacturing, operation, and recycling. The GIS can also be used at extreme temperatures, and there is no need to report the quantities of fluorine gas used.", explains Ralf Christian, CEO of the Siemens Division Energy Management.
Press Release | 30. Aug 2018 |
"Future built in"- Siemens presents digital substations at CIGRE 2018

    Holistic approach for smart, digital substations capable of handling demands of the power grid of the future
    Ensuring reliability, resilience and efficiency by using intelligent system components and IT/OT convergence
    Environmental protection ensured by integration of eco-friendly technology

Siemens has launched the concept for substations with the future built in – an integrated 360°portfolio of products and solutions based on Siemens' unique technical know-how and consulting expertise, at this years' CIGRE session in Paris. Global trends like decarbonization, decentralization and digitalization are disrupting the energy industry. These trends are posing challenges to energy systems worldwide by making them more complex and stressing the need for smart grid management solutions. As substations are the centerpieces of any energy system, they play a crucial role in the power grid of today and will gain even more importance in the future grid. Siemens is now offering a holistic approach for digital substation solutions making consistent use of all available data, state-of-the-art analysis and comprehensive data connectivity through MindSphere – Siemens' open cloud-based platform for the Internet of Things (IoT).
Press Release | 30. Aug 2018 |
Siemens has commissioned HVDC back-to-back link between India and Bangladesh

    Two back-to-back links with a transmission capacity of 500 MW each ensure a reliable electricity supply of Bangladesh's population and growing economy
    HVDC Classic technology helps stabilize the connected systems in the event of grid disturbances
    The high capacity power link helps to avoid transmission bottlenecks

In June 2018, Siemens has fully commissioned the second block of the high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) back-to-back link in Bheramara, Bangladesh, to connect the electricity supply networks of India and Bangladesh with a transmission capacity of up to 500 Megawatts (MW). Block 1 is in operation since 2013 and offers a transmission capacity of up to 500 MW. With block 1 & 2 operating in parallel the Bheramara HVDC back-to-back link has a capacity of up to 1000 MW – the highest reliable power capacity in Bangladesh. On July 27th, 2018, the trial run was successfully completed; however, Block 2 has been put into commercial operation since July 2nd, 2018, to support the customer's operating needs. From Bheramara at the Western border of Bangladesh, the 230-kilovolt (kV) grid of the country will be connected via a substation and overhead lines to India's 400-kV grid.
Press Release | 30. Aug 2018 |
Cloud link boosts efficiency - Automotive supplier modernizes production plant with Siemens solutions
News | 29. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
A utility grade Power-over-Ethernet supporting switch to handle growing amounts of data

    High bandwidth to handle growing amounts of data
    Ideal for applications with the need for PoE++ in harsh environments
    Support for Ruggedcom CLP for easier in-field setup

Siemens is expanding its Ruggedcom portfolio with a new Ethernet 19 inch rack switch with Power-over-Ethernet support. Its high port density with up to 24 Power-over-Ethernet ports helps significantly reduce capital expenses by reducing the number of network devices needed. The RST2228P offers Power-over-Ethernet, precision timing and network communication on a single network, helping to reduce maintenance costs related to timing or power solutions that require dedicated wiring. The CLP interface port allows for easy replacement of devices in the field using the Ruggedcom CLP removable media to automatically apply the failed device's configuration to a replacement unit in the unlikely event of a failure. The device is rugged rated and features an operating temperature from -40 to +85 degrees Celsius, as well as electromagnetic interference (EMI) immunity. The product can be used in the harsh environments of Electric Power, Transportation and Oil & Gas industries and is ideal to handle ever growing amounts of data.
Press Release | 29. Aug 2018 |
Siemens launches Frequency Stabilizer to support power grids in milliseconds

    Siemens is launching the innovative Frequency Stabilizer SVC Plus FS. It combines static var compensation with so-called supercapacitors for the first time.
    The SVC Plus FS can compensate for voltage and frequency fluctuations in just milliseconds.
    The space-saving solution fills an important technological gap to facilitate the energy transition.

With its SVC Plus Frequency Stabilizer (FS), Siemens is the world's first supplier to combine reactive power compensation capability with the use of so-called supercapacitors. The SVC Plus FS can feed the reactive power needed for stable grid operation in less than 50 milliseconds. At the same time, the up to 200 megawatts of electric power stored in the supercapacitors can be transferred to the grid at full load. As a result, the voltage and frequency, and thus also the grid, remain stable. This automatic procedure is triggered whenever the voltage or frequency exceeds or drops below certain limits. When fluctuations occur in a power grid, the first few seconds determine whether a blackout will occur. In such situations, a new solution developed by Siemens immediately supplies the energy needed in the necessary quantity, thus preventing a power failure. This is particularly important in power grids that are exposed to volatile infeeds, for example from increasingly more distributed and renewable energy sources.
Press Release | 28. Aug 2018 |
Siemens and Mortenson complete Bipole III HVDC Converter Stations in Canada

    Bipole III is a 2,000 MW HVDC project enabling transmission of renewable energy via almost 1,400 kilometers
    Close collaboration enabled on time delivery of a highly complex project in a challenging environment
    The project significantly strengthens the reliability of Manitoba's electricity supply

The consortium of Siemens and Mortenson has successfully completed the ± 500-kilovolt (kV) Bipole III high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) power converter stations for customer Manitoba Hydro. The HVDC converter stations are an integral part of the Manitoba Hydro Bipole III transmission project. The entire transmission line will act as an "electricity highway", bolstering the reliability of Manitoba's electricity supply by reducing dependence on existing HVDC transmission lines, while also ensuring low-loss transport of renewable hydropower from northern generating stations to meet growing energy requirements. HVDC converter stations are specialized substations that support the conversion of electric power from high-voltage alternating-current (HVAC) to high-voltage direct-current (HVDC), or vice versa, a critical component to interconnecting separate power systems.
Press Release | 28. Aug 2018 |
Siemens Mobility presents new Vectron Dual Mode locomotive

    Sustainable and economical solution for freight transport in Germany
    Combined diesel and electric locomotive
    Available from the end of September 2018

Siemens Mobility will be presenting a new locomotive at the InnoTrans 2018, the world's largest trade fair for railway technology. The Vectron Dual Mode can be operated as both a diesel and electric locomotive. On electrified sections of track, the new locomotive is powered by electricity to save fuel and reduce maintenance costs. The locomotive can be switched to diesel mode on non-electrified sections. The Vectron Dual Mode concept enables operators to increase their sustainable value throughout the locomotive's lifecycle. The locomotive has been designed for freight transport in Germany and can be ordered from the end of September 2018.
Press Release | 27. Aug 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Complex testing made easy -Tool manufacturer relies on Siemens communication technology for testing
News | 27. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Bentley Systems strengthen their strategic alliance and joint investment initiatives

    Successful strategic alliance with Bentley Systems, which started in 2016, to be further expanded
    Joint investment initiative extended by an additional €50 million, totaling €100 million
    Ambition to further accelerate joint business

In the companies' latest Alliance Board meeting, Bentley Systems and Siemens decided to further strengthen their strategic alliance. The two companies have decided to extend their existing agreement, to further develop their joint business cooperation and commercial initiatives. Therefore, the joint innovation investment program will be increased from the initial €50 million funding to €100 million. In addition, as a result of the continuous investment of Siemens into secondary shares of Bentley's common stock the Siemens stake in Bentley Systems now exceeds 9%.
Press Release | 27. Aug 2018 |
Siemens at Offshore Northern Seas 2018
Siemens showcased its comprehensive offshore oil and gas solutions at the Offshore Northern Seas (ONS) August 27 – 30 in Stavanger, Norway. From offshore drilling, to subsea, to floating productions platforms, Siemens real world deployments of scalable, software solutions help upstream customers optimize decision-making, increase productivity, maximize capital efficiency, and improve safety and security. Visitors learned how more than 35 years of operational offshore experience – combined with our digital expertise – turned data into value throughout the entire value chain.
Stavanger | 27. Aug 2018 - 30. Aug 2018 | Gas and Power Save the date
Siemens at CIGRE 2018: Unlock the potential of digitalization
CIGRE 2018 took place at Paris from August 25th until 31st. Digitalization provides the key to success in the increasingly distributed energy landscape. Siemens experts explained how to make these changing energy systems even more safe and efficient. Digitalization enables predictive planning and new business models beyond just the provision of grid capacity.
Paris | 25. Aug 2018 - 31. Aug 2018 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
World record for electric race car - Swiss team designs electric race car for Formula Student with Siemens PLM Software
News | 24. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
With Digital Enterprise, Siemens makes Industrie 4.0 come alive for the machine tool world
News | 20. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
ÖBB and Siemens Mobility sign framework agreement for passenger coaches for Austria

    First call for 8 day trains and 13 night trains
    Total order valued at over €1.5 billion
    First trains to enter service in 2022

Austrian Federal Railways (ÖBB) and Siemens Mobility have signed a framework agreement for the delivery of day and 8 trains with a total of up to 700 passenger coaches over the next five years. The agreement has a total volume of more than €1.5 billion when all of the agreement’s services have been called up. At the signing of the agreement, ÖBB placed its first call for eight nine-car trains for day service and 13 seven-car trains for night service. The Viaggio coaches will be operated with ÖBB’s current fleet of Siemens Taurus locomotives. Commissioning of the first trains is planned for 2022. The passenger coaches will be manufactured at the Siemens factory in Vienna, Austria. The framework agreement can also be extended beyond 2023 by ÖBB.
Press Release | 17. Aug 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Flexible bottle production - PET bottle manufacturer chooses Siemens motion control for new plant
News | 15. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
Martina Maier appointed new Chief Compliance Officer of Siemens

    Maier to succeed Klaus Moosmayer, who is leaving the company as of November 30, 2018

Martina Maier (51) has been appointed the new head of the global Compliance Department at Siemens AG. Maier, who currently heads Siemens' Competition Department, will assume the position of Chief Compliance Officer on December 1, 2018. This position has been held since 2014 by Klaus Moosmayer (49), who is leaving the company at his own request.
Press Release | 14. Aug 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens and PowerCell to collaborate in fuel cell systems for ships

    Partnership between Siemens and PowerCell Sweden AB
    Planned collaboration for maritime energy systems based on fuel cells
    Siemens to supply SISHIP BlueDrive integrated energy and propulsion system
    PowerCell, as a producer of fuel cell modules, to provide integrated systems 

Siemens and Power Cell Sweden AB, a Swedish producer of fuel cell modules, are to enter into a partnership in order to drive forward the integration of fuel cell modules in shipping. The aim of the collaboration is to develop an energy supply system for vessels which is based on fuel cells. Siemens will supply the SISHIP BlueDrive integrated energy and propulsion system into which PowerCell will install its fuel cell modules. Possible joint projects could include energy supply systems for ferries, yachts, cruise ships and research vessels.
Press Release | 14. Aug 2018 |
Ensuring future productivity - Yarn manufacturer future-proofs production with machine retrofit
News | 13. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
En route towards Industrie 4.0 - Ferpinta modernizes sheet metal cutter with Siemens solutions
News | 10. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
With Digital Enterprise, Siemens makes Industrie 4.0 come alive for the machine tool world

    Trade fair slogan "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing – Implement now!"
    Integrated, end-to-end and open ecosystem of digital platforms as a basis for productivity enhancing machine tool applications
    Innovative automation and technology portfolio for higher machine tool productivity 

At the AMB in Stuttgart, the International Exhibition for Metalworking, Siemens will be showcasing the continuously advancing Digital Enterprise portfolio used for implementing Industrie 4.0 in the machine tool world. It helps both makers and users of machine tools to leverage the enormous potential that digitalization now offers. Under the motto "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing - Implement now!", Siemens will be demonstrating to users and manufacturers of machine tools at its 270 square meter Booth B03 in Hall 2 how end-to-end digitalization solutions work from the machine tool right up to the corporate management level and the cloud.
Press Release | 09. Aug 2018 |
Siemens achieves breakthrough with 3D-printed combustion component for SGT-A05
Siemens has reached yet another milestone in its journey to realize the many benefits of additive manufacturing (AM) and to lead the development of this innovative technology in the power generation industry. This time the company has successfully 3D-printed and engine tested a dry low emission (DLE) pre-mixer for the SGT-A05 aeroderivative gas turbine, with the impressive results showing a potential for significant reductions in CO emissions. This achievement further solidifies Siemens’ position as one of the world’s leading developers of innovative additive manufacturing techniques and uses in the energy industry."This is another excellent example of how additive manufacturing is revolutionizing our industry, delivering measurable benefits and real value to our customers, particularly as they look to further reduce emissions to meet environmental targets," said Vladimir Navrotsky, Chief Technology Officer for Siemens Power Generation Services, Distributed Generation. "Our achievements using AM are paving the way for greater agility in the design, manufacturing and maintenance of power generation components."The achievements resulting from using AM to manufacture this particular gas turbine component are significant. From concept to engine test, the development took only seven months, which is impressive for a component that requires such tight tolerances and works in high load and temperature. The DLE pre-mixer is highly complex with over 20 parts involved in the casting and assembly using traditional manufacturing methods. By utilizing Siemens qualified nickel super alloys as the AM printing material, the 3D-printed component requires only two parts and lead time is reduced by approximately 70 percent. 3D-printing of the DLE pre-mixer allows Siemens to simplify complexity in the production process, reduce external dependencies in the supply chain, and improves the geometry of the component, thus allowing a better fuel-air mix.First engine testing of the AM-manufactured DLE pre-mixer, which was 3-D printed in Siemens' AM center of competence in Finspang, Sweden, was recently completed and the data received is promising. It showed no start issues, all fuel transitions were accomplished successfully without any controls modifications required, there were no combustion dynamics or noise, measurable CO emissions reductions were realized and full power was achieved. These positive results reaffirm Siemens commitment to continuing to advance toward serial production of highly complex components, such as this one, using AM.Siemens' DLE solution for the SGT-A05 gas turbine reduces emissions through advanced lean burn combustion technology, eliminating the need for water injection. The DLE conversion reduces customers' operating costs associated with water treatment. Application of DLE does not compromise the high dynamic loading response of this aeroderivative engine model. More than 120 engines are successfully utilizing DLE technology to reduce NOx and CO emissions with 3.9 million operating hours accumulated (as of February 2018). ''And now, with AM technology we have an opportunity to go even further with emissions reduction for DLE combustion," said Douglas Willham, Siemens Director of Engineering for the SGT-A05.Last year, Siemens finished its first full-load engine tests for gas turbine blades completely designed and produced using AM technology. Earlier this year, the company 3D-printed and installed into customer's equipment its first replacement part for an industrial steam turbine. In early 2017, Siemens achieved the first successful commercial installation and continuing safe operation of a 3D-printed part in a nuclear power plant – an impeller for a fire protection pump that is in commercial operation. Siemens accumulated more than 30,000 hour of successful commercial operation for SGT-800 burners repaired with AM technology and for SGT-750 burner swirls manufactured by AM. All these combustor components are running in a very high load and temperature environment.
Feature | 08. Aug 2018 | Gas and Power
Packaging 4.0 - Belgian company modernizes its packing process with Siemens automation
News | 08. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
Pure power on two wheels - Motorcycle manufacturer uses Siemens PLM Software solution for product development
News | 06. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
Making availability plannable - Plant optimization and maintenance planning with Motion Control Services from Siemens
News | 03. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q3 FY 2018: Excellent order growth highlights successful third quarter

    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, orders rose 21% and revenue was level with the prior-year period
    On a nominal basis, orders climbed 16% to €22.8 billion driven by a higher volume from large orders, while revenue came in at €20.5 billion, 4% lower than the prior-year quarter due primarily to currency translation effects; the book-to-bill ratio was 1.11
    Industrial Business profit was up 2% at €2.2 billion and Industrial Business profit margin was 10.7%; excellent performance by Digital Factory and improvements in many Divisions partly offset by a sharp decrease in profit and profitability at Power and Gas
    Net income of €1.2 billion was held back by substantially higher income tax rate compared to Q3 FY 2017, which also benefited from positive effects in Centrally managed portfolio activities; basic earnings per share (EPS) of €1.36 compared to €1.67 in Q3 FY 2017

"Our global team delivered a strong quarter, highlighted by outstanding order intake, outperforming the market. We diligently address our opportunities and challenges going forward," said Joe Kaeser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG.
Press Release | 02. Aug 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens' Supervisory Board approves new assignment of Managing Board responsibilities
At its meeting yesterday, the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG approved the company's new Vision 2020+ strategy and reassigned responsibilities within Siemens' Managing Board.
Press Release | 02. Aug 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens intends to propose Ernst & Young as independent auditors
The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG intends to propose to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting the appointment of Ernst & Young GmbH, Stuttgart, to serve as independent auditors for fiscal 2019. This is the result of an intensive dialogue between the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee and the Managing Board of Siemens AG as well as of an extensive tender process pursuant to relevant European statutory provisions. In the view of the aforementioned governing bodies and committee, Ernst & Young presented the most attractive offer in the tender process.
Press Release | 02. Aug 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens is awarded contract for streetcars in Orange County, California

    New order will bring eight S70 low-floor streetcars to the OC Streetcar project

Siemens Mobility today announced that it has been awarded a contract from the Orange County Transportation Authority (OCTA) for eight streetcars. The contract includes spare parts and tools, and comes with the option to purchase up to 10 additional streetcars at a later date. Siemens will provide systems support and training to operators and maintenance technicians once the vehicles are delivered, expected early 2021.
Press Release | 02. Aug 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Third Quarter Results FY 2018
Combined press and analyst conferenceWe released our third quarter results for fiscal year 2018 on August 2, 2018 and outlined a strategy update. The combined press and analyst conference was broadcast live.
Munich | 01. Aug 2018 - 01. Aug 2018 | Siemens AG Save the date
e.GO Kart goes digital - Aachen-based start-up uses Siemens PLM Software solutions for pedelec product development
News | 01. Aug 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens sets future course with Vision 2020+

    New company structure: Three "Operating Companies" – "Gas and Power", "Smart Infrastructure" and "Digital Industries" – and the "Strategic Companies" Siemens Healthineers, Siemens Gamesa and the planned company Siemens Alstom
    More entrepreneurial freedom at individual businesses for accelerated growth: Revenue and margin targets raised
    Targeted expansion of digitalization business: Acquisition of mendix
    New growth field: "Internet of Things (IoT) Integration Services"

Siemens is setting the course for long-term value creation through accelerated growth and stronger profitability with a simplified and leaner company structure. The main aim of the Vision 2020+ company strategy is to give Siemens' individual businesses significantly more entrepreneurial freedom under the strong Siemens brand in order to sharpen their focus on their respective markets. Plans also call for strengthening the company's growth portfolio through investments in new growth fields such as IoT integration services, distributed energy management and infrastructure solutions for electric mobility. The concentrated expansion of industrial digitalization, in which Siemens is already the world leader, will make a further contribution. As a result, both the annual revenue growth rate and the profit margin of the company's Industrial Business are expected to increase by two percentage points over the medium term. Basic earnings per share are expected to grow faster than revenue over the medium term.
Press Release | 01. Aug 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens strengthens its digital enterprise leadership with acquisition of mendix

    Siemens to acquire mendix, a leader in low-code application development, for €0.6 billion
    Acquisition to accelerate adoption of MindSphere by ecosystem growth and 10x faster application development
    Closing of transaction expected in first quarter of fiscal year 2019

Siemens has signed an agreement today to acquire mendix, a pioneer and leader in cloud native low code application development. Under the agreement, Siemens will pay in cash €0.6 billion to acquire the company. Mendix will retain its distinct brand, culture and continue serving customers across the full range of industries with its unique platform and broad ecosystem and community. Siemens will continue to invest in mendix's independent product roadmap, continuing its legacy as the most-innovative, open low-code cloud platform. Mendix will be part of the software business of Siemens' Digital Factory (DF) Division, with the mendix platform also deployed across other Divisions.
Press Release | 01. Aug 2018 |
Siemens builds turnkey combined cycle power plant in Herne

    Heat and power for the Rhine-Ruhr metropolitan region
    Fuel efficiency exceeding 85 percent
    Long-term service agreement 

Siemens and STEAG GuD Herne GmbH signed an agreement today on the turnkey construction of a combined cycle power plant with district heat extraction. They also entered into a long-term service agreement. The Herne 6 plant will have an electrical capacity of more than 600 megawatts (MW). Steam will also be extracted, and the thermal energy obtained will be used for the district heating grid of Germany's Rhine-Ruhr metropolitan region. Never before has a single power plant unit been able to provide 400 MW of (thermal) district heat with combined cycle operation. The overall fuel efficiency of the natural gas used thus climbs to more than 85 percent, making the power plant one of the world's most efficient and most environmentally friendly plants. The investment volume for Herne 6 is in the mid-triple-digit euro range.
Press Release | 31. Jul 2018 | Gas and Power
Customized production at speed - Machine tool manufacturer relies on Siemens technology for rotary transfer machines
News | 30. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens' V2I-Enabling Roadside Unit adds Wi-Fi travel time capability through new cloud-based Travel Sense application

    Siemens' Travel Sense application allows RSUs to collect anonymized data from passing vehicles -- via Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or DSRC -- and make it available on the cloud, eliminating the need for additional hardware.

Siemens Intelligent Traffic Systems announced it is now making travel time and traffic congestion gathering capability available on its popular ESCoS Roadside Unit (RSU) via a new cloud application called Siemens Travel Sense, an easy-to-use data analytics platform and a game-changer for agencies wanting to consolidate units offering different capabilities. This additional capability now adds to Siemens' impressive lineup of already-supported CV RSU applications which includes: Time-to-Change, Curve Speed Warning, Variable Speed Limit, Wrong Way Entry, Exit Ramp Deceleration Warning, Work Zone Warning, Transit Signal Priority, Emergency Vehicle Preemption and Pedestrian Collision Warning.
Press Release | 30. Jul 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Completion of world's largest combined cycle power plants in record time

    Plants add up to 14.4 GW capacity to Egypt's national grid
    Enough power to meet the electricity needs of up to 40 million people
    Helping the country save over $1 billion annually on fuel costs

In collaboration with the Egyptian Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy, Siemens and its consortium partners, Orascom Construction and Elsewedy Electric, announced today the completion of the Egypt Megaproject in record time. The parties celebrated the combined cycle commissioning and the start of operations at the Beni Suef, Burullus and New Capital power plants. The stations will add a total of 14.4 gigawatts (GW) of power generation capacity to Egypt's national grid, enough power to supply up to 40 million people with reliable electricity. With this milestone, Egypt and Siemens have set a new world record for execution of modern, fast-track power projects, delivering 14.4 GW of power in only 27.5 months. A single combined cycle power plant block with a capacity of 1,200 megawatts typically takes approximately 30 months for construction. For the Egypt Megaproject Siemens in parallel built twelve of these blocks in record time and connected them to the grid.
Press Release | 27. Jul 2018 |
New Drive Service offers extended product cover for Sinamics drives
News | 27. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Completion of world's largest combined cycle power plants in record time
On March 2nd, 2017, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, Siemens CEO Joe Kaeser and further high-ranking representatives witnessed the symbolic inauguration of the first phase of Siemens' megaproject in Egypt. The event marked an important milestone towards the completion of the project. In collaboration with the Egyptian Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy, Siemens and its consortium partners, Orascom Construction and Elsewedy Electric, announced on July 24, 2018 the completion of the Egypt Megaproject in record time. The parties celebrated the combined cycle commissioning and the start of operations at the Beni Suef, Burullus and New Capital power plants. The stations will add a total of 14.4 gigawatts (GW) of power generation capacity to Egypt's national grid, enough power to supply up to 40 million people with reliable electricity. With this milestone, Egypt and Siemens have set a new world record for execution of modern, fast-track power projects, delivering 14.4 GW of power in only 27.5 months. A single combined cycle power plant block with a capacity of 1,200 megawatts typically takes approximately 30 months for construction. For the Egypt Megaproject Siemens in parallel built twelve of these blocks in record time and connected them to the grid. Following the delivery of several Siemens SGT5-8000H gas turbines, the first steam turbine for the Egypt Megaproject began its journey in December 2016 from the Siemens factory in Muelheim to the power plant Beni Suef in Egypt. The main components of the 670-ton cargo were lifted with a heavy-duty crane from the production hall onto a transport vessel standing by at the plant's inland harbor facilities. The vessel transported the SST-5000 steam turbine from Muelheim to the deep-water port of Antwerp where it was loaded onto a heavy cargo ship and transported to Egypt. After the steam turbines installation, the waste heat from the gas turbines will be used to produce steam that will then drive the steam turbine, thus increasing the overall power output and efficiency of the power plant. In total, Siemens will deliver twelve SST-5000 steam turbines for the Egyptian power plants Beni Suef, Burullus and New Capital. All of these steam turbines will be manufactured at the Siemens factory in Muelheim.
Feature | 27. Jul 2018 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power, Financial Services
Siemens plans to take over products from OMAT Ltd., extending its software portfolio for the Digital Enterprise

    Take-over of technologically leading process control software solutions strengthens the Siemens machine tool control software portfolio
    Software solutions for adaptive spindle feed control, enhanced tool life cycles and spindle vibration analysis
    Integration of OMAT Ltd.'s products into the Siemens software portfolio for the Digital Enterprise enables easier handling and a significant advancement of existing OMAT products

Siemens Digital Factory plans to take over products of OMAT Ltd., a supplier of software solutions for adaptive spindle feed control, improvement of tool life cycles and vibration analysis of spindles for the use with CNC controls. The software solutions offered by OMAT focus on optimizing the spindle feed during machine operation. These solutions from OMAT Ltd., headquartered in Jerusalem, will provide a significant addition to the Siemens CNC software portfolio for Sinumerik and further strengthen Siemens' position as a leading supplier of CNC controls mainly in the field of digitalization.
Press Release | 26. Jul 2018 |
Siemens detected about 443,000 lighting strikes in Germany in 2017

    Siemens' lightning information service detected about 443,000 lightning strikes in Germany in 2017 – 11,000 more than in 2016
    Garmisch-Partenkirchen was the German district struck most often by lightning, lowest rates were in the city of Pirmasens
    Germany's "capital of lightning" was Mainz, followed by Wiesbaden and Berlin
    At the European level, Slovenia leads the ranking 

Garmisch-Partenkirchen District in Upper Bavaria was the German region with the most lightning activity in 2017. Siemens' lightning information service BLIDS (which stands for Blitz-Informationsdienst von Siemens) registered 3.51 lightning strikes per square kilometer in Garmisch-Partenkirchen in 2017. The districts of Main-Taunus and Giessen in the state of Hesse were on second and third place with 3.47 and 3.46 ground flashes per square kilometer, respectively. Germany's lowest concentration of lightning strikes was in the cities of Pirmasens (0.16), Oldenburg and Bonn (both at 0.18). With lightning hitting 2.4 times per square kilometer, Mainz led the country's list of state capitals. Overall, at 443,000 strikes, BLIDS again registered a comparatively low level of atmospheric discharges in Germany – although 2016's record low level, with about 432,000 strikes detected, was exceeded in 2017 by 11,000 (2,5 percent). For the first time, BLIDS is also making data available for Central Europe.
Press Release | 25. Jul 2018 | Siemens AG
Software creates competitive edge - Nascar racing team relies on Siemens PLM Software for rapid racing car design
News | 25. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Paint facility for giants - Efficient painting of truck cabs with Siemens automation
News | 23. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Added value in more ways than one - Renowned automotive supplier relies on Siemens motor starters for hybrid technology
News | 20. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Deutsche Bahn and Siemens develop digitalized operation of the Hamburg S-Bahn
For the first time in Germany, a highly automated S-Bahn will begin operating in Hamburg in 2021. A cooperation agreement for the "Digital S-Bahn Hamburg" was signed by Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, Deustche Bahn and Siemens. The agreement specifies that a 23-kilometer-long section of the S-Bahn Line 21 between the Berliner Tor and Bergedorf/Aumühle stations will be equipped for fully automated operation, and that four trains will at the same time be equipped with the required technology.
Feature | 18. Jul 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens supplies equipment for Vietnam's largest solar farm
Siemens has won the contract to supply systems to its customer Trung Nam Group in Vietnam and put the country's largest solar farm into operation. The farm is the first solar project for Siemens in South-East Asia, and has a module capacity of 258 megawatts peak (MWp). The deliverables include inverters, power- and distribution transformers, gas-insulated medium-voltage switchgear, circuit-breakers, and a monitoring and control system. All transformers are to be delivered as Sensformer with digital interface. The overall project constitutes an "Electrical Balance of Plant" (eBoP) solution, and involves a number of Siemens units, headed by Medium Voltage and Systems. The solution includes all the electrical engineering components needed to equip a photovoltaic plant. "The customer received our competent support in the bidding phase and will get a very competitive solution," says Stephan May, CEO of the Medium Voltage and Systems Business Unit. "We are proud to be able to offer the best solution that will play a vital role in supporting the energy transformation in Vietnam."
Press Release | 16. Jul 2018 |
Efficient, intuitive handling - Simple autoclave operation with Siemens automation environment
News | 16. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Selective data backup - Database Services optimize system availability for Sinumerik Integrate installations
News | 13. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens launches performance enhancement for select SGT-800 gas turbines
Siemens has introduced a new SGT-800 performance enhancement that is applicable to all existing SGT-800 units with 43-47.5-MW ratings. The new upgrade is designed to provide owners and operators with significant fuel savings and CO2 emissions reduction for improved sustainable energy production.
Feature | 12. Jul 2018 | Gas and Power
Global benchmark achieved - Compressor manufacturer boosts production efficiency with Siemens PLM Software
News | 11. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Multisite remote meter reading and energy monitoring - new functionalities for Synco IC

    Siemens cloud platform for remote heating, ventilation and air conditioning control further extended
    Collect billing data and reduce energy consumption remotely
    Cost-efficient solution for operation, management and energy monitoring for small and midsize buildings

The Siemens Division Building Technologies adds new functionalities to the Synco IC cloud platform for remote HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) control. From July 2018 onwards, Synco IC includes remote meter reading for energy billing, remote monitoring of energy key performance indicators (KPIs) and remote intervention to reduce energy consumption. Synco IC, introduced to the market in 2015, is a cloud-based system for the cost-efficient operation and management of HVAC plants in small and medium size buildings.
Press Release | 11. Jul 2018 |
Siemens report urges cities to plan now for arrival of autonomous vehicles

    Siemens report "Cities in the Driving Seat" encourages cities to anticipate and tackle upcoming changes to their infrastructures early
    Report urges urban areas to use connected and autonomous vehicles to refocus urban environments on citizens rather than cars
    Connecting autonomous vehicles to intelligent transport infrastructures can maximize their benefit
    Greatest benefit from autonomous vehicles will emerge from capacity to provide "first and last mile" trips and help city government provide new transport services

The advent of connected and autonomous vehicles (CAV) has the potential to cause major and disruptive changes to cities worldwide, a report launched by Siemens indicates. The report "Cities in the Driving Seat" stresses the need for cities to plan early and tackle the issue in a wider context of mobility transformations. Launched today at the World Cities Summit in Singapore the study explores the interdependencies between urban development, public transportation policies, power supply, pollution and the increasing share of CAV in city traffic. Lack of mid-term planning and delayed investments in infrastructure could create negative social, economic and environmental effects, the authors from Siemens' Global Center of Competence Cities argue.
Press Release | 10. Jul 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens software solution helping cities improve air quality

    City Air Management captures pollution data in real time and forecasts emissions up to five days in advance
    Solution simulates effectiveness of measures for improving air quality
    Siemens and Sino-Singapore Guangzhou Knowledge City plan to jointly deploy and enhance this software solution as world's first implementation

A new software solution is helping cities remedy the growing problem of air pollution and the associated lack of compliance with emission-control thresholds. Siemens presented City Air Management (CyAM) at the World Cities Summit in Singapore. CyAM is a cloud-based software suite with a dashboard that displays real-time information on the air quality detected by sensors across a city and predicts values for the upcoming three to five days. These air-quality forecasts are prepared with the aid of algorithms that tap into an artificial neural network and draw on historical and current data on air quality as well as weather and traffic patterns. Mayors and other decision-makers can then use this data and a combination of potential solution measures to derive concrete recommendations for action and define measures that help reduce concentrations of nitrogen oxides and atmospheric particulate matter.
Press Release | 10. Jul 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens tram for Ulm wins the Red Dot Award

    Award for the Avenio M
    Tram convinces in the category "Product Design"
    Second Red Dot Award for the Avenio family 

The Siemens Avenio M tram, designed for Ulm, Germany, has won the prestigious Red Dot Award. SWU Verkehr GmbH had ordered twelve articulated Avenio M trams from Siemens in May 2015. The trams are optimized for operating on the Ulm routes with their steep grades and will serve on Line 1 and the new Line 2.
Press Release | 10. Jul 2018 |
Fortieth customer for Siemens locomotive

    The Rath Group is the fortieth Vectron customer
    Order for three Vectron MS locomotives
    Delivery beginning in December 2018

The Rath Group and Siemens have signed a contract for the delivery of three Vectron multisystem (MS) locomotives. The locomotives are planned for freight service and will operate in Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland and Slovakia. Delivery of the locomotives will begin in December 2018. The locomotives will be built at the Siemens factory in Munich-Allach. With this order, RTB Cargo, the freight transport arm of the Rath Group, will have its own multisystem fleet for the first time.
Press Release | 09. Jul 2018 |
NCTD Board Approves Purchase of New Locomotives to Serve San Diego County
The North County Transit District (NCTD) Board of Directors approved the purchase of five new Siemens locomotives at the June Board meeting. The five locomotives being replaced were originally built between 1975-1992 and were purchased as used by NCTD. These five locomotives have reached the end of their useful life.
Press Release | 09. Jul 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens develops roadmap for digital transformation of global glass manufacturer Steklarna Hrastnik
News | 09. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and SPIC explore technology collaboration in heavy-duty gas turbines

    Memorandum of Understanding signed to target cooperation between Siemens and China's State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC)
    Siemens to become SPIC's potential partner for development of own generation of heavy-duty gas turbines

Siemens and State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC) of China entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) today to further confirm intention of technology collaboration in the field of heavy-duty gas turbines. Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG, and Qian Zhimin, Chairman of SPIC, signed the MoU in Berlin in the presence of German Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang during his official visit to Germany.
Press Release | 09. Jul 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens and Alibaba Cloud partner to power industrial Internet of Things in China

    MoU signed under the witness of German chancellor and Chinese premier
    Siemens MindSphere to be deployed and operated on Alibaba Cloud's infrastructure for China Mainland market

Siemens and Alibaba Cloud, the cloud computing arm of Alibaba Group, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) today to partner to foster the industrial Internet of Things (IoT) in China. The two companies will leverage each other's technology and industry resources to build a unique IoT solution to support Industrie 4.0, China's manufacturing upgrade and transformation and other industrial Internet initiatives. Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG and Simon Hu, Senior Vice President of Alibaba Group and President of Alibaba Cloud signed the MoU in Berlin under the witness of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang during his official visit to Germany.
Press Release | 09. Jul 2018 |
Young soprano from Ireland wins Siemens Opera Contest

    Siemens Arts Program promotes outstanding young talent and awards Siemens Opera Contest France prize to Sarah Shine

The young soprano Sarah Shine is the winner of the Siemens Opera Contest France at the Opéra Garnier in Paris. Sarah Shine was born in 1993 in Ireland and completed her studies with Veronica Dunne at the Irish Royal Academy of Music in 2015. Since September 2017, she has been studying at the Academy of the Opéra national de Paris.
Press Release | 09. Jul 2018 | Siemens AG
Infosys Partners with Siemens to Develop Advanced IoT Engineering Solutions on MindSphere
News | 06. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens supplies SF6-free high-voltage switchgear for English wind farm
Siemens will supply 102 SF6-free, gas-insulated 8VM1 high-voltage switchgear (GIS) to Siemens Gamesa by the middle of next year. The switchgear will protect each wind turbine individually against overloads and short-circuits and make it possible to supply electricity reliably and without interruption. Developed for wind farms, the 8VM1 from the blue GIS portfolio operates with vacuum circuit-breaker technology and with clean air instead of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) as the insulating medium. The switchgear are destined for the British East Anglia One offshore wind farm, which will supply up to 600,000 British homes with electricity starting in 2020. Siemens Gamesa is building the wind farm for ScottishPower Renewables in approximately 300 square kilometers of space, and is using a new connection and wind farm grid concept with a voltage of 66 Kilovolts (kV). Compared to the usual 33 kV connection, it increases the transmission capacity of each cable and simultaneously reduces transmission losses, thus cutting costs. For this purpose, Siemens Gamesa has adapted the substation transformers and converters to the wind turbines. Siemens will ship all 102 switchpanels by mid-2019.
Press Release | 05. Jul 2018 |
Telecontrol unit with integrated GPS functionality for new use cases

    Simple monitoring of measuring points for process data
    Integrated GPS functionality for localization and time synchronization
    Extension board for connecting additional sensors via Modbus RTU

Siemens is expanding the possible uses for its telecontrol units from the Simatic RTU3000C product family with new hardware and software: The new Simatic RTU3031C (Remote Terminal Unit/RTU) has integrated GPS functionality for comparing the setpoint with the actual position. That makes it suitable not only for static applications such as the monitoring of distributed measuring points in the water industry, but also for mobile applications that require localization functions. This includes, for example, position monitoring for floating navigation signs or container tracking. In addition, Siemens is introducing an extension board that allows users to connect up to eight additional sensors to the telecontrol units. New firmware for the product family also offers users new functions, such as connection to redundant control centers and new function blocks for the statistical evaluation of process values.
Press Release | 05. Jul 2018 |
Siemens delivers rail technology to Taiwan

    Taoyuan City gets fully automated metro
    Green Line: 27.8 kilometers long with 21 stations
    Link to Taoyuan International Airport
    CBTC-based train control will maximize throughput and capacity

A consortium of South Korea's train manufacturer Hyundai Rotem, Taiwan's construction company BES Engineering and Siemens will deliver, on a turnkey basis, the electrical and mechanical solutions for the Green Line metro in the Taiwanese city of Taoyuan. The contract was awarded by the Taoyuan City Government. Siemens' share of the project comprises the Trainguard MT Communications-Based Train Control system (CBTC), traction drives for the trains and the direct-current (DC) traction power supply. The metro line's signaling system will enable unattended train operation (Grade of Automation, GoA4).
Press Release | 05. Jul 2018 |
Dubai Airports to save 20 percent on annual energy bill with Siemens solution

    Siemens-Division Building Technologies guarantees by contract power and water savings for seven years
    Data analytics from automation systems used to design tailor-made energy conservation measures

Dubai Airports will use Siemens Building Technologies data analytics and smart building technology to guarantee annual energy savings of almost 20 percent per year at Dubai Airports' facilities, by implementing energy efficiency measures at Terminal 1, Terminal 2, Terminal 3 and Concourse B at Dubai International (DXB). Focusing on air and water systems, the seven-year project is expected to reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 25,000 tons, with annual electricity savings of approximately 50 gigawatt hours (GWH), and water savings of around 21 million gallons. The initiative is part of Dubai Airports' comprehensive energy-saving strategy and program designed to limit the environmental footprint at both of its airports.
Press Release | 04. Jul 2018 |
Customized catalog of measures - Data and process analysis boosts efficiency in mechanical production
News | 04. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Cost effective compact IEEE 1588 Ethernet switches for reduced downtimes

    Power redundancy eliminating a single point of failure
    Award-winning industrial design
    Ideal for digital substations, transportation and oil & gas industries

Two new compact rugged Ethernet switches have just been added to Siemens Ruggedcom portfolio. The IEEE 1588 conformant Ruggedcom RSG908C and Ruggedcom RSG910C reduce the total cost of ownership by combining precision timing information and data communications onto a single network. These two new switches come with an integrated DIN rail mount and front-facing interfaces for easy installation in space-limited areas. They offer redundant power inputs for both DC and high voltage AC/DC applications, eliminating a single point of failure. The switches are designed to operate in harsh environments with widely varying climatic and environmental conditions, which is ideal for digital substations, transportation and oil & gas industries.
Press Release | 03. Jul 2018 |
Czech Railways orders 50 passenger cars

    Consortium of Siemens and Škoda Transportation commissioned
    Delivery of the first cars within 32 months
    Improved passenger comfort and experience

Czech Railways (České dráhy – ČD) has ordered 50 Viaggio Comfort passenger cars from a consortium of Škoda Transportation and Siemens. Delivery of the first cars is planned within 32 months. Siemens will be responsible for the engineering, production of the car bodies, delivery of the bogies and the dynamic commissioning as well as authorization. Škoda will handle the electric and mechanic final assembly and the static commissioning and delivers auxiliary converters and control cabinets. The total value of the order is around €115 million.
Press Release | 03. Jul 2018 |
Standardized system landscape - Siemens technology replaces heterogeneous control system for optimized operation
News | 02. Jul 2018 | Digital Industries
Optimum bearing solutions - Linear bearing manufacturer digitalizes production using Siemens PLM Software
News | 29. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Cerberus PACE - new public address and voice alarm system from Siemens

    European standard EN 54-16 compliant public address and voice alarm system with professional sound quality and low latency
    Highly flexible in system size and redundancy levels
    Real-time engineering for configuration and maintenance without system restarts

The Siemens Building Technologies Division launches a new public address and voice alarm (PA/VA) system in June 2018. The modular and scalable system can be customized for buildings of all types and sizes. It can be used for emergency situations and convenience applications such as public announcements and background music. The PA/VA system, marketed as Cerberus PACE (Public Address and Controlled Evacuation), can incorporate multiple redundancy levels and is also suitable for step-by-step modernization of outdated public address and voice alarm systems (PA/VA systems). Real-time engineering supports maintenance and configuration changes during business hours, while professional sound quality and low latency enable clear communication.
Press Release | 28. Jun 2018 |
Combination of equipment with finance benefits wind developers

    Finance proves crucial for Siemens Gamesa customers across the globe
    Preferred finance agreement with Siemens Financial Services offers bundled equipment, service and capital solutions for wind industry
    Bosco Le Piane project in Italy benefits from collaboration 

Helping wind energy customers overcome funding obstacles, Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy has teamed up with Siemens Financial Services (SFS) to offer bundled solutions that include equipment and service with financing options. Finance is one of the biggest barriers facing clients as it varies from market to market, and the ability to offer financial solutions has proved to be a win-win in bringing clean energy projects online for Siemens Gamesa customers worldwide. Most recently, the Bosco Le Piane wind project in Italy benefited from this Siemens Gamesa-SFS collaboration. This is the fourth large-scale onshore wind farm in Italy financed by SFS in support of key clients that incorporate Siemens Gamesa technology. The other projects were Melfi, Tricarico and E-Vento.
Press Release | 27. Jun 2018 | Financial Services
Bell strikes at the push of a button - Optimum swing for church bells with Siemens solution
News | 27. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens to supply three large gas turbines to Dubai
Siemens has received an order for three SGT5-4000F gas turbines from United Arab Emirates (UAE). The turbines will be used in Unit H Phase 4 of the Al Aweer power plant complex which is located approximately 35 kilometers from downtown Dubai. DEWA has awarded the project EPC contract to Siemens in a consortium led by the Egypt-based company El Sewedy Electric Co SAE (SWDY.CA) through its subsidiary Elsewedy Power. With an electrical generating capacity of about 815 megawatts (MW), the turbines will increase the total output of the power plant complex to more than 2.8 gigawatts (GW). The commercial commissioning of the three gas turbine trains is scheduled for spring 2020.
Press Release | 26. Jun 2018 |
Siemens completes extensive service in record time at power plant in Dubai
Siemens has completed extensive service operations on the gas turbines at Jebel Ali K-station in a record time of only 29 working days, a notable accomplishment for a project of this scale. The power plant is located in Dubai and owned by Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) and in operation since 2002. The outage featured the application of the "rotor-swap"; a pioneering concept that has been developed by DEWA to utilize a spare rotor and other critical parts, stored at the plant's site, to maximize each unit's availability and reduce idle time while waiting for the completion of rotor assembly work.Under terms of the agreement, Siemens provided supervisory services for three of Jebel Ali K-station's gas turbines to enable further efficient and reliable operation for approximately 100,000 hours – equivalent to about 15 years. The upgrades also increased power output by 62.6 megawatts (MW) and improved power plant efficiency by about 0.5 percent."The new project is built on over 30 years of trust and partnership with Siemens. We are very pleased to work with the company again and successfully complete services of Jebel Ali K-station's power assets so quickly, which allowed the plant to reduce the length of maintenance outage and return the turbines to service as early as possible," said Nasser Lootah, Executive Vice President of DEWA. "With this project, we will enhance the power output and the long-term availability of our power generation assets."After a certain number of operating hours, all gas turbines need to be dismantled for maintenance services. Typically, an outage of this kind would take up to 45 working days to complete, involving over 100 personnel with different areas of technical expertise. By implementing a newer outage concept, Siemens was able to perform the services within just 29 working days, setting a new benchmark in the global power service industry."DEWA puts a great importance on the availability and sustainability of power for Dubai's population, which results in their continuous commitment to innovative ideas and proactive approach for accomplishing the best results," said Gianluigi Di Giovanni, Senior Executive Vice President of Siemens Power Generation Services in the Middle East. "This project reflects our commitment to bringing the company's latest and most-advanced technologies to the UAE to help boost the efficiency and sustainability of its energy sector."Recently, Siemens and Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) have signed an agreement to collaborate on an advanced data-driven project. Siemens and DEWA are working together to identify ways to improve thermal efficiency, provide cost-effective solutions for performance optimization, manage costs and reduce fuel consumption and emissions.
Feature | 26. Jun 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens books first Smartron order

    Eisenbahngesellschaft Potsdam (EGP) orders three Smartron locomotives
    New Smartron: One version, one contract, one price
    Delivery in early 2019 

Eisenbahngesellschaft Potsdam mbH (EGP) has ordered three Smartron locomotives from Siemens. The Smartron, the new locomotive from Siemens, is tailored for a specific transport function and combines the advantages of a standard product with the platform-proven technology of the Vectron. The Smartron is preconfigured for transporting freight in Germany and ensures customers cost-efficient operation with high operating reliability.
Press Release | 26. Jun 2018 |
Workplace app Comfy joining Siemens to create personalized and responsive buildings
Siemens Building Technologies Division is acquiring Building Robotics Inc., a market leader in the fast growing digital workplace experience app domain. The simple-to-use app Comfy enables people to take control of their environment and provides feedback on their space. With this acquisition, Siemens is setting a further milestone in smart building solutions.
Feature | 26. Jun 2018 | Smart Infrastructure
New Siemens "Smartron" locomotive for Germany

    Standard locomotive for freight transport in Germany
    Smart concept: One version, one contract, one price
    Already approved for operation

Siemens is offering a new locomotive for service in Germany: The Smartron is tailored for a specific transport function and utilizes all the advantages provided by standardization. As a preconfigured locomotive, the Smartron has been conceived for transporting freight in Germany and ensures customers cost-efficient operation and the highest safety standards. The Smartron has already received approval for operating in Germany. The locomotives can now be ordered and will be delivered beginning late in 2018. The first locomotive of the new series is immediately available to customers for test runs and demonstration.
Press Release | 26. Jun 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens acquiring Building Robotics to enhance its digital portfolio with workplace app Comfy

    Siemens Building Technologies extends its leadership in smart buildings by acquiring Building Robotics Inc., the creator of Comfy®
    Comfy is a leading digital workplace app, creating more personalized and responsive workplaces while providing analytics for efficient building operations
    Sold as software-as-a-service, Comfy will extend the cloud portfolio of Siemens Building Technologies
    Transaction expected to close in the third quarter of 2018

Siemens Building Technologies Division is setting a further milestone in smart building solutions by acquiring Building Robotics Inc., a market leader in the fast growing digital workplace experience app domain. Headquartered in Oakland, California, the start-up achieved its leadership position by developing a simple-to-use app that enables people to take control of their environment. Building Robotics, Inc. is best known by the name of its core product, Comfy.
Press Release | 25. Jun 2018 |
Siemens acquires Austemper Design Systems for breakthrough IC functional safety technology
News | 25. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Complete change of technology - New press drive concept based on low-wear planetary gear motor
News | 22. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Solarkiosk join forces to power Africa with microgrid solutions

    MoU signed at Intersolar trade show
    First joint project as a basis for further development is located in Rwanda
    Partnership focus on Solarkiosk's projects in East Africa which provide solar energy for local entrepreneurs/SMEs in rural off-grid areas
    Siemens microgrid solution helps to collect, monitor and analyze data as well as to provide simple remote control
    Collected data to create additional value for local entrepreneurs, operators, service providers and communities

Siemens and SOLARKIOSK have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on June 20 at the Intersolar trade show. Both companies agree to join forces to enhance local businesses powered by SOLARKIOSK's clean energy in non-electrified parts of rural Africa. SOLARKIOSK has deployed more than 250 projects in twelve countries serving roundabout 5 million people. The SOLARKIOSK solar powered E-HUBB is the business centerpiece for a rural "off-grid" village providing retail and energy related services such as charging (mobile phones, batteries, lights), internet connectivity, cooling of products and medication, water purification, copy, print or scan, financial inclusion services as well as news and entertainment to local communities.
Press Release | 20. Jun 2018 |
Siemens to deliver digital solutions for distributed energy systems in Brazil

    Digital billing system allows smart calculation of electric energy consumption
    Digital operation and maintenance solution will allow remote power plant control
    Memorandum of Understanding with Athon Energia signed at Intersolar Europe

Today at Intersolar Europe in Munich, Germany, Siemens signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Athon Energia S.A., a Brazilian investment holding focused on distributed generation and renewable energy projects. The agreement foresees the provision of a full digital service package for smart energy management, including data management for digital billing, and operation and maintenance (O&M) solutions.
Press Release | 20. Jun 2018 |
Implementing Industrie 4.0 today with Digital Enterprise solutions from Siemens

    Booth slogan: "Digital Enterprise – Implement now!"
    The time for implementation has arrived: Digital Enterprise solutions for production enable machine builders and users to already benefit from Industrie 4.0
    Solutions for the integration of handling systems and robots into the digital integrated value chain

At the automatica 2018, Siemens will be demonstrating how machine builders and users can already benefit from Industrie 4.0. Exhibiting under the banner "Digital Enterprise – Implement now!", Siemens will be focusing on integrated, user-oriented solutions from the Digital Enterprise portfolio for enterprises of all sizes and branch of industry – along the entire value chain from product design and production planning, through the engineering process, to new data-based services. As a first-time exhibitor at automatica, Siemens will also be showcasing whole new possibilities for the integration of handling systems and robots through simulation, engineering and machine connectivity with its world leading portfolio of automation, drive technology and software. Automated engineering and the simulation of machines and product lines enable greater flexibility, shorter times to market, and improved efficiency and quality.
Press Release | 19. Jun 2018 |
Siemens at Intersolar 2018
Leverage the full potential of renewable resources and local energy solutionsThe energy landscape is changing toward decentralization and independence from the traditional central power supply model – toward an increasingly distributed energy system. This change is characterized by an increase of efficient and affordable renewable power generation solutions – from small to utility scale – as well as combined heat and power (CHP) and storage technologies. The growing utilization of renewable energy sources, the deregulation of markets, and environmental awareness reinforce this shift. Siemens meets this trend by delivering a customer-specific offering such as solutions for local energy, photovoltaic and e-mobility infrastructure as well as low-voltage components.
Munich | 19. Jun 2018 - 22. Jun 2018 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Siemens at the automatica 2018
Siemens exhibited at the automatica 2018 with an array of integrated and user-oriented Digital Enterprise solutions designed to sharpen the competitive edge of both end users and machine builders. Exhibiting under the banner "Digital Enterprise – Implement now!", Siemens focused on ways in which industrial enterprises of all sizes can benefit from the digital transformation – along the entire value chain from product design and production planning through the engineering process to new services.  
Munich | 19. Jun 2018 - 22. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries Save the date
First metro for Bangkok's Green Line rolls out the factory

    First 4-car train due to arrive in Thailand in August 2018
    Total of 22 metro trains to be delivered
    Siemens will maintain the trains for 16 years

The first metro of 22 new four-car trains for Bangkok's Green Line extension has been manufactured and is ready for shipment to Thailand. Production of the train at the Bozankaya factory in Ankara, Turkey, began in April 2017. Today, just fourteen months later, Siemens, Bozankaya and Bangkok Mass Transit System Public Company (BTSC) are celebrating the roll-out of the first train. The metro train, weighing 140 tons, will begin its journey from the factory to the Turkish port of Borusan-Gemlik at the end of June. The entire distance from the factory to the train's final destination is around 15,000 kilometers and will take about six weeks. Arrival at the Thai port of Laem Chabang is scheduled for August 2018, and will be followed by static and dynamic commissioning in Bangkok, including test runs on the Green Line tracks in Bangkok. The trains will operate on the existing BTS (Skytrain) system and its extensions, and will help boost the capacity of the lines to over one million passengers a day.
Press Release | 19. Jun 2018 |
Siemens and Lempäälän Energia to build microgrid in Finland
Lempäälän Energia has awarded Siemens to implement a self-sufficient smart grid system in the industrial area of Marjamäki, Finland. Siemens' scope of supply encompasses design and engineering of a smart medium-voltage microgrid, the corresponding grid automation system and an electrical storage system. The purpose of the project LEMENE is to provide a cost-effective and environmentally friendly energy system that also guarantees secure electricity supply. After implementation of the microgrid, industrial businesses in the area can connect to the distributed energy system, and can flexibly participate in different energy markets. If necessary, the energy system is also capable of independent off-grid operations by disconnecting from the national grid.
Press Release | 19. Jun 2018 |
90 axes fully under control - Machine builder chooses motion control from Siemens for new high-speed plant
News | 18. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
All-round IP65 and IP66 protected HMI devices for operator control and monitoring

    Simatic HMI Thin Client PRO operator terminals with IP65 degree of protection and 15, 19 and 22 inch screen sizes
    Mountable components (extension units) extend application options
    Simatic HMI Thin Client Ex OG in IP66 for use in the chemical, oil, gas and shipbuilding industries

Siemens has extended its system family of all-round protected HMI (Human Machine Interface) devices for machine-related, cabinet-free visualization and automation. High-performance Simatic Thin Client PRO operator terminals with 15, 19 and 22 inch screen sizes and all-round IP65 degree of protection are new to the range. Like all devices in the PRO series, the new Thin Clients can be extended by mountable components (extension units) – such as mounting adapter, keyboard tray and keyboard. New expansion options are operator controls with USB interfaces and an extension box with adjustable handles for easy operation of the panels on the machine.
Press Release | 18. Jun 2018 |
Siemens at Matlab Expo 2018 - The spotlight at the conference will be on innovations in the Simatic portfolio
News | 15. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Gantry robot on world tour - Trade fair exhibit with MindSphere connection to be presented globally following successful launch
News | 13. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens presents its new high-speed train – the "Velaro Novo"

    Improved passenger experience and reduced lifecycle costs
    30 percent energy savings, 15 percent lighter
    Train undergoing tests since April 2018

Siemens is presenting a new concept for high-speed trains at the InnoTrans 2018, the world's biggest trade fair for rail technology. The Velaro Novo sets new standards for efficiency and sustainability and at the same time offers the highest passenger comfort and convenience. Siemens has developed the new high-speed platform for service from 250 up to 360 km/h throughout the world.
Press Release | 13. Jun 2018 |
Siemens and Evonik agree technology partnership for data management in Comos

    Integration of Evonik asset life cycle data model into Comos
    Partnership includes the integration and support of the whole engineering and operation process

Siemens und Evonik are to enter into a technology partnership. Its aim is the development of an asset life cycle data model and its integration into the Siemens software solution Comos. The asset life cycle data model was developed by Evonik on the basis of the international DEXPI standard ISO 15926 and other internationally valid standards. Its aim is to cover all the elements and structures of relevance for the chemical industry in a single integrated data model across the entire life cycle – from product development, equipment planning and operation to final decommissioning. Siemens and Evonik develop an application providing software support for the whole engineering and operation process. The outcome of this cooperative process will become an integral part of the Comos software portfolio.
Press Release | 12. Jun 2018 |
Siemens and Bentley Systems found the Process Industries Academy

    Siemens and Bentley are driving digital enterprise forward with the Process Industries Academy
    Best practice approaches for plant engineering and operation
    Training at the first academy will commence in the second half of 2018 in Karlsruhe

The Siemens Divisions Process Industries and Drives (PD) and Digital Factory (DF) together with Bentley Systems and the Bentley Institute are driving digital enterprise forward over the entire life cycle by founding a Process Industries Academy. The Academy's aim is to share best practice for plant engineering and operations. Academies are situated in the strategic locations of Karlsruhe, Germany (Siemens Process Automation World), Houston, Texas/USA (Bentley's Digital Advancement Academy) and Shanghai, China (Siemens Process Industry Centre for Excellence) to support the global process industry. The first event will be held in the second half of 2018 at the Siemens Process Automation World in Karlsruhe.
Press Release | 12. Jun 2018 |
Siemens, PSE to collaborate on model-based solutions

    Strategic collaboration of Siemens and PSE extends integrated digitalization portfolio for process industries
    Close linkage of Comos, Simatic PCS 7 and Simit with PSE's gPROMS Advanced Process Modelling technology
    Integrated use of Advanced Process Modelling along plant lifecycle
    Model-based solutions are essential complements of the Siemens portfolio

Siemens AG and Process Systems Enterprise (PSE), the Advanced Process Modelling (APM) company, today announced at Achema that they have signed a long-term collaboration agreement to bring the power of PSE's gPROMS APM technology to Siemens automation and digitalization offerings for the process industries. Under the agreement, the companies are bringing to market a new set of solutions for long-term equipment and health monitoring, soft-sensing, prediction of future process performance, real-time optimisation, and operator training incorporating high-fidelity models. The solutions are all based on the combination of process models that embody deep process knowledge with real-time as well as historical plant data.
Press Release | 11. Jun 2018 |
Sartorius Stedim Biotech and Siemens sign long-term cooperation agreement in the area of automation

    Siemens becomes a preferred supplier for automation solutions
    Product portfolio of Sartorius Stedim Biotech to feature a globally standardized automation platform in the future
    New automated product to debut at the Achema 2018 trade show in Frankfurt 

The Siemens technology group and Sartorius Stedim Biotech (SSB), a leading international supplier for the biopharmaceutical industry, have agreed on long-term cooperation in the area of automation. This agreement provides that Sartorius Stedim Biotech will preferably use Siemens automation technologies, which will include industrial PCs, the S7-1500 software controller, the TIA Portal and the SCADA system Simatic WinCC, among others. These hardware and software components will be employed in many products and solutions that SSB offers its customers for the development and manufacture of biopharmaceuticals, such as vaccines and monoclonal antibodies.
Press Release | 11. Jun 2018 |
Bilfinger relies on Comos software from Siemens for group-wide digitalization

    Siemens and Bilfinger SE step up long-standing cooperation
    Comos as a central database focusing on process industry with sufficient flexibility to meet individual project requirements
    Customers worldwide benefit from integrated engineering
    Exchange of experience enables targeted software development and rapid value creation

Siemens and industrial service provider Bilfinger SE have decided to step up their cooperative association, as Bilfinger drives forward digitalization using the Comos Engineering & Maintenance Platform across its many sites and subsidiaries spread around the globe. This software platform from the Siemens Digital Enterprise portfolio not only allows close cooperation between the different Bilfinger sites and its customers through the use of a shared database, but also offers sufficient flexibility to accommodate individual project requirements. "By using Comos, we are driving the standardization of our engineering tools forward to a new level," says Tom Blades, Chairman of the Executive Board of Bilfinger. "This enables us as a company group to offer broad-based support from every one of our different sites to customers in the implementation of their engineering projects." This solution allows Bilfinger to respond rapidly to customer requirements and modification requests while at the same time enhancing reliability in terms of both quality and engineering. "In Bilfinger, we're delighted to have found a partner capable of enriching our Comos software with industry-specific knowledge. Customers benefit from Bilfinger's pre-configured expertise, while using Comos helps them speed up the value creation process," explains Eckard Eberle, CEO of the Process Automation (PD PA) Business Unit and Director of the Siemens booth at the Achema.
Press Release | 11. Jun 2018 |
Siemens realizes digital transformation of the process industry with Digital Enterprise

    Technical conditions in place for digital transformation of the process industry
    New and existing plants of any size capable of digitalization
    Digital twin for greater flexibility, efficiency, quality and shorter time to market 

The digital transformation of the process industry is in full swing. At the Achema 2018, Siemens will be exhibiting under the banner "Accelerate the digital transformation – from integrated engineering to integrated operations". Featured over a total area of just under 1,300 square meters will be the Digital Enterprise solutions portfolio, which allows companies of the process industry to leverage the benefits of Industrie 4.0 already today. The portfolio encompasses integrated hardware, software and services for companies of all sizes and from all sectors of the process industry. "We are the first provider ever to offer an end-to-end data model along the entire plant life cycle, from integrated engineering and integrated operations through to data-based services. This model, the digital twin, enables users to achieve higher flexibility, a shorter time to market, greater efficiency and improved quality during running operation. With this achievement, we've already put the technical conditions in place to allow the implementation of Industrie 4.0. Using co-creation methods in association with our partners, we are concentrating the expertise needed to develop new, innovative products and services," says Jürgen Brandes, CEO of the Process Industries and Drives Division.
Press Release | 11. Jun 2018 |
New software version Simit V10 creates greater simulation flexibility

    Siemens unveils V10 of its Simit simulation software at the Achema 2018
    Flexible integration of additional functions and improved scalability
    New license and dongle concept for improved scaling 

Siemens will be presenting the latest release of its Simit simulation software, part of the Digital Enterprise portfolio for the process industries, for the first time at the Achema 2018. Version 10 of the software enables the flexible addition of functionalities such as new libraries, the Component Type Editor and Virtual Controllers. Used in combination with the new license structure, V10 offers improved software scalability tailored to any individual project size. This makes the use of simulation affordable right from the initial stage, as the pricing structure in place from Version 10 onwards takes into account the size of the simulated project. Another new feature is the dongle concept, which enables the number of dongles required to be significantly reduced in future depending on the specific application. Alongside this fundamentally new licensing concept, Simit V10 users also benefit from a number of functional upgrades. These include support for the S7 Redundancy Protocol in the Virtual Controller for the Simatic S7-400 as well as new components within the ChemBasic library for process simulation. Also featured at the Achema will be a number of exhibits demonstrating the wide-ranging possibilities of Simit, including an application for virtual commissioning, automatic model generation with the aid of planning data from COMOS and an operator training system.
Press Release | 11. Jun 2018 |
Optimum nutritional content - Infrared oven for defrosting and preparing food uses Siemens technology
News | 11. Jun 2018 |
Siemens at the Achema 2018
World Forum and Leading Show for the Process IndustriesUnder the motto "Accelerate the digital transformation – from integrated engineering to integrated operations." we presented at the Achema 2018 trade show specific applications for how to use the potential of digitalization to enhance efficiency, flexibility, and quality – and to shorten time to market. Production can be significantly optimized and made more flexible by integrating all components in instrumentation and control and management systems and by intelligently using all of the process data generated in a common data model – the digital twin of the overall plant. Maintenance effort and costs can also be slashed dramatically by using cloud-based applications and data-based services.
Frankfurt am Main | 10. Jun 2018 - 14. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries Save the date
High safety level under extreme conditions: Simotics XP Chemstar

    Explosion-proof low-voltage motors for the specific requirements of the chemical, oil and gas industries
    Customized solution for simplified processes, standardized components and low lifecycle costs
    Outstanding reliability even under extreme conditions

Simotics XP Chemstar is a customized solution from Siemens for the chemical and petrochemical industries as well as oil and gas. The new low-voltage motors are offered with preconfigured industry-specific option packages tailored to the specific requirements of the process industry. Benefits for customers include fast, simple processes, standardized components and low lifecycle costs. These motors offer a high level of reliability under even extreme conditions and in potentially explosive atmospheres while providing precisely tailored compliance with industry-specific requirements. Added benefits include fast project execution, simple order placement, standardized documentation, short delivery times, simplified inventory and spare parts management and optimized service concepts. Explosion-proof low-voltage Simotics XP Chemstar low-voltage motors are used in machines and applications such as pumps, compressors, fans, extruders, agitators and separators.
Press Release | 10. Jun 2018 |
A close eye on every factory - Standardized automation from Siemens as a success factor in granulate production
News | 08. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Covestro strengthen strategic partnership as part of digitalization
Siemens AG and Covestro Deutschland AG have concluded a Joint Business Development Plan to provide further strategic reinforcement of their trust-based partnership of many years, particularly in the field of digitalization. This is based on the corporate ethos of the two companies which is both innovative and geared towards sustainability. The agreement therefore helps make life simpler and safer through continuous improvement and future-oriented products.
Press Release | 07. Jun 2018 |
Little helper, big impact - Hamburg company develops marine energy saving system with Siemens technology
News | 07. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
First pressure transmitters for remote commissioning of functional safety

    Remote commissioning of SIL devices saves time and effort
    Maintenance costs reduced due to increased proof test interval
    High accuracy and fast response time increases process efficiency

Siemens presents Sitrans P320/420, the first pressure transmitter on the market to feature remote safety handling reducing commissioning time in applications requiring functional safety. Via Simatic Process Device Manager (PDM) the safety integrity level (SIL) devices will be commissioned: rather than manually attending to each individual device across the facility, operators can commission transmitters from the control room. This next generation of pressure transmitters was developed according to IEC 61508 standard for the use in SIL 2/3. Significantly lowering maintenance costs could be expected as these transmitters have an increased proof test interval over other devices on the market.
Press Release | 06. Jun 2018 |
Siemens embraces Belt and Road Initiative

    First B&R International Summit held in Beijing to "Connect, Create, Collaborate"
    More than ten cooperation agreements signed with Chinese enterprises
    Partnership with over 100 Chinese EPCs in more than 100 markets worldwide
    Siemens calls for digital ecosystem for future-oriented infrastructure development
    Carsten Hasbach to head Siemens' BRI Office in Beijing 

Siemens entered into more than ten agreements with Chinese partners today in support and exploration of opportunities from the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). At the Belt and Road International Summit held by Siemens today, more than 1,000 leaders and executive representatives from governments, enterprises, investors, financing institutions and think tanks from more than 30 countries and regions gathered. The cooperation, signed with a number of leading Chinese enterprises - including for example China Gezhouba Group Corporation International Engineering Co., Ltd., Guangdong Yuedian Group Co., Ltd., China National Chemical Engineering Group Corporation Ltd. (CNCEC), China Railway Construction Corporation (International) Ltd., China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) and China Resources Cement Holdings Ltd. - covers power generation, energy management, building technology and intelligent manufacturing, and it targets market potentials of countries and regions such as Indonesia, the Philippines, Nigeria, Mozambique as well as South America.
Press Release | 06. Jun 2018 | Siemens AG
Elegant, silent and speedy - New catamaran on Lake Lucerne powered by hybrid propulsion from Siemens
News | 06. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens will deliver one of the world's most efficient combined cycle power plants to UK

    Siemens to provide turnkey solution and long-term services to SSE
    World's first deployment of the innovative 50Hz Siemens HL-class gas turbine

Siemens and the Scottish energy company SSE plc have announced they will collaborate to build the highly efficient gas-fired power station Keadby 2 in Lincolnshire. Siemens will provide a full turnkey solution for the power plant, which will include the world's first deployment of the 50Hertz version of its SGT-9000HL gas turbine. SSE will invest £350 million in the construction of the new power station which will have a total capacity of 840 megawatts (MW) and 63 percent efficiency. Also included is a 15-year long-term service contract, the first long-term program (LTP) for an HL-class gas turbine in Europe. Siemens will utilize its advanced digital service solutions, including remote monitoring and diagnostics, to help maintain the availability, reliability and optimal performance of the power plant.
Press Release | 05. Jun 2018 |
Universal coupling relays with user-friendly connection and wide-range input

    Sirius 3RQ2: New series of coupling relays for universal application reduces model diversity with wide-range input from 24 to 240 volt AC/DC
    High-grade industrial enclosure with user-friendly connection simplifies handling, installation, servicing and wiring
    Typical applications include galvanic isolation, signal amplification and voltage conversion as well as overvoltage and EMC protection

Sirius 3RQ2 from Siemens is a new range of coupling relays with truly universal application scope. With their minimal mounting depth of 90 millimeters and wide-range power supply from 24 to 240 volts AC/DC, these relays are available in variants with between one and three changeover contacts. The Sirius 3RQ2 coupling relays are replacing the 3RS18 series, but with a drastically reduced number of variants due to the availability of a wide-range input. Use of the same terminal assignment and minimization of the variant options makes changeover to the new Sirius 3RQ2 coupling relay series both fast and simple to implement. The new relays are also designed for optimum coordination with Simatic S7 controllers and Sirius contactors. Typical applications include galvanic isolation, signal amplification and voltage conversion, for instance from 24 V DC to 230 V AC, as well as overvoltage and EMC protection for control systems. The Sirius 3RQ2 variants with hard gold-plated contacts for switching currents in the lower milliampere ranges are particularly suited for PLC inputs and outputs.
Press Release | 05. Jun 2018 |
Industrial router for secured remote access to plants and machines with Profibus

    Scalance M804PB for connecting existing plants with Profibus/MPI (Multi-Point Interface)
    Secured remote access via Sinema Remote Connect management platform
    TIA Portal Cloud Connector
    For industries such as automotive, food & beverage, chemical and pharmaceutical 

Siemens is extending its portfolio of industrial routers with the Scalance M804PB. This device allows existing machines and plants (for example with Simatic S7-300/S7-400) to be connected to Ethernet networks via Profibus/MPI (Multi-Point Interface). Users can also easily and economically connect older machines and plants directly to the Sinema Remote Connect management platform for remote networks. Secured communication takes place via a VPN tunnel which can be easily configured and administered via Sinema Remote Connect. The Scalance M804PB extends the proven Scalance router product line and provides a consistent remote maintenance concept for existing and new plants. This makes it suitable for companies in the manufacturing industry such as mechanical equipment manufacturers (Original Equipment Manufacturers / OEMs) as well as for companies in the automotive, food & beverage, chemical and pharmaceutical industries.
Press Release | 04. Jun 2018 |
The automated home - Logo! from Siemens for simple automation of private homes
News | 04. Jun 2018 | Digital Industries
Tailor-made solution for remote access - Optimized production sequences with automation from Siemens
News | 30. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Planned combination of Siemens Mobility and Alstom reaches further milestones

    French Ministry for the Economy and Finance gives green light
    France's financial markets regulator grants Siemens exemption 

The planned combination of Siemens' mobility business, including its rail traction drive business, with Alstom has reached the next milestones. In connection with the transaction, the French Ministry for the Economy and Finance (MINEFI) has granted Siemens foreign investment clearance. The Ministry can restrict or prohibit foreign investments in specified industries in France.
Press Release | 30. May 2018 | Siemens AG
Rugged Industrial Ethernet switches for the process industry

    Industrial Ethernet switches with special functions for the process industry
    S2 communication and network redundancy, R1 in all Profinet network topologies
    Changes to configurations during operation
    Flexible, reliable networking of process automation devices 

Siemens brings new versions of Industrial Ethernet switches onto the market. The firmware functions (Profinet S2 device, H-Sync and configuration in Run/CiR/H-CiR) in interaction with the Simatic PCS 7 process control system make the new products suitable for the flexible, reliable and high-performance networking of process automation devices. They support system-wide diagnostics, configuration changes and plant expansions during operations as well as the construction of redundant networks to improve reliability.
Press Release | 28. May 2018 |
Precise steering force models - Automaker optimizes development and simulation with Simcenter from Siemens
News | 28. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Cloud-based simulations - Training employees throughout the world in a "virtual classroom"
News | 25. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Northvolt partner in next generation lithium-ion battery cell production

    Siemens to offer Northvolt its Digital Enterprise portfolio that enables the digitization of the entire value chain – from the design of the battery cell to production and services
    Siemens will support the technology partnership through an investment of EUR 10 million
    After production start, Northvolt will become a preferred supplier for lithium-ion batteries for Siemens

Siemens and Northvolt today announced a partnership for the development of best-in-class technology to produce high-quality, green lithium-ion batteries. The partnership, which will be supported by Siemens through an investment of EUR 10 million, also includes the supply of lithium-ion batteries.
Press Release | 25. May 2018 |
Siemens appoints new CEO of Siemens Mexico, Central America, and Caribbean

    Juan Ignacio Diaz appointed new CEO of Siemens Mexico, Central America, and Caribbean, effective June 1

Siemens Mexico today announced that Juan Ignacio Diaz will serve as the new CEO of Siemens Mexico, Central America, and Caribbean. He succeeds Louise Goeser who has left the company. Diaz was previously Country CEO of Siemens Chile and lead for its Mobility division.
Press Release | 25. May 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens delivers cloud-based energy monitoring system at Rexel

    Austria's largest electrical equipment warehouse reduces its annual energy consumption by 15 percent
    Cloud application makes consumption transparent and reveals savings potential
    MindSphere energy-saving app for energy optimization

The Austrian electrical wholesaler Rexel Austria has placed an order with Siemens to deliver a cloud-based energy monitoring system that will be deployed in its logistics center in Weisskirchen. The system is expected to reduce annual energy consumption by up to 15 percent, an amount equal to the annual consumption of 40 single-family households. The scope of supply includes 66 communication-capable 7KM PAC 1500 and 7KM PAC 4200 power measuring devices, powermanager energy monitoring software, and connection to MindSphere, the IoT (Internet of Things) operating system from Siemens. A separate app, which is programmed by Siemens developers in Austria in close collaboration with Rexel, analyzes current power consumption values and makes the savings potential visible only to Rexel. Siemens is not given access to the data. In this way, Siemens is helping Rexel efficiently control power usage while also developing a new business model: Rexel is planning to use this technology at another site belonging to the company and, in the future, sell the energy saving solution to other SMEs in all industries.
Press Release | 24. May 2018 |
Siemens drives digital transformation in buildings with acquisition of Enlighted

    Building Technologies to acquire leading provider of smart IoT systems in buildings
    Expansion of smart building technology with digital sensory system – advanced lighting control application as core element
    Enhancing building performance by gathering multiple streams of data to improve transparency and efficiency
    Transaction expected to close in the third quarter of 2018 

Siemens Building Technologies Division is acquiring Enlighted Inc., a leading provider of smart IoT (Internet of Things) systems in buildings, headquartered in the Silicon Valley. The company is a successful player in the smart building industry, bringing an advanced digital sensory system to market. Both parties have agreed not to disclose financial details. Closing is expected in the third quarter of 2018. Enlighted will be managed as an independent legal entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Siemens Industry, Inc.
Press Release | 23. May 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens expands digitalization solutions for the process industries

    Technical prerequisites for Industrie 4.0 fulfilled
    Personalized medicine is driving digitalization of the pharmaceutical industry
    IoT solutions as a growth driver

The digital transformation of the industrial sector is in full swing: with its Digital Enterprise portfolio, Siemens has fulfilled the technical prerequisites for implementing Industrie 4.0, the Fourth Industrial Revolution. As a result, companies of any size or industry can immediately begin using "digital twins" across the entire value chain in order to increase their competitiveness over the long term. "With our Digital Enterprise portfolio, our customers are now already achieving improvements in flexibility, time-to-market, efficiency and quality," said Eckard Eberle, CEO of Siemens' Process Automation Business Unit, at a press event in Vienna, Austria. "With these capabilities, they can successfully tackle some of the challenges that the process industries are currently facing. The growing importance of personalized medicine, for instance, is strengthening demand within the pharmaceutical industry for digital technologies that enable continuous, paperless production in smaller batches all the way down to a lot size of one."
Press Release | 23. May 2018 | Siemens AG
Riding every wave - Water park uses Siemens panels for simple operation of integrated control system
News | 22. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens showcases user-oriented solutions for the digital future of manufacturing

    Booth slogan: "Digital Enterprise – Implement now!"
    User-oriented Digital Enterprise solutions for manufacturing sharpen competitive edge of end users and machine builders
    Wide-ranging practically-oriented exhibits and models visualize digital progress along the entire value chain

Siemens will be exhibiting at the automatica 2018 with an array of integrated and user-oriented Digital Enterprise solutions designed to sharpen the competitive edge of both end users and machine builders. Exhibiting under the banner "Digital Enterprise – Implement now!", Siemens will be focusing on ways in which industrial enterprises of all sizes can benefit from the digital transformation – along the entire value chain from product design and production planning through the engineering process to new services. With product variants changing at an ever faster pace, today's machines have to offer not only greater flexibility but also a higher degree of automation through the use of handling and assembly systems – a process supported by integrating robotics into production machinery. At the same time, automated engineering and the simulation of machines and product lines are enabling an ever shorter time to market.
Press Release | 22. May 2018 |
Creating the ideal atmosphere - Light installation in Jahrhunderthalle Bochum automated with Siemens technology
News | 18. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Securing Critical Infrastructure Highlighted as New Partners Join Charter of Trust during U.S. Infrastructure Week

    Leaders from Cisco, Dell Technologies, Total and TÜV SÜD AG Sign Charter of Trust
    6th Annual National Infrastructure Week Kicks-Off with Advocacy and Events
    Cybersecurity Community Gathers for Thought Leadership on the "Future of Cybersecurity - Risk and Resiliency Across Critical Infrastructure" 

The Charter of Trust members include a "who's who" of global brands, all well-known as best in-class – the largest, the most admired, the most sustainable, the best places to work, the most recognized, and now, all are being lauded as companies dedicated to using digitalization as a path for securing the future. Siemens, and the 11 Charter of Trust members, today welcomed Cisco, Dell Technologies, Total and TÜV SÜD AG to its global cybersecurity initiative during National Infrastructure Week in Washington, D.C.
Press Release | 17. May 2018 |
Siemens to acquire leading software framework provider for building automation and IoT

    Expansion of Siemens offering with open software framework for building automation and IoT
    California-based J2 Innovations to be managed as independent legal entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Siemens
    International expansion of J2 Innovations beyond North America

Siemens is acquiring J2 Innovations (J2), a leading software framework provider for building automation and IoT, headquartered near Los Angeles, California. The company has been a successful player in the Internet-of-Things (IoT) software business for 10 years, building a strong reputation in the US and internationally with its FIN (Fluid INtegration) Framework technology. Both parties have agreed not to disclose financial details. The transaction is expected to close by the end of May 2018.
Press Release | 17. May 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens supplies cloud-based grid data management system for BKW Group
Siemens has been engaged by BKW Group to install a cloud-based meter data management system for power consumption data. Swiss law now requires the installation of smart electricity meters. As a result the volume of data that BKW is required to process will increase more than 40,000-fold. The cloud-based Siemens system, EnergyIP makes it possible to record and analyze these huge data volumes automatically. Siemens, working with Omnetric Group, the technology services company they founded with Accenture, will implement, integrate and operate the Software as a Service (SaaS) solution.
Press Release | 17. May 2018 |
Joint statement by the Managing Board, Central Works Council and Senior Management of Siemens AG and by IG Metall
Siemens stands for understanding and openness and opposes every form of discrimination, social exclusion, hate and nationalism. Siemens' Managing Board, Senior Management, Central Works Council and entire workforce as well as the IG Metall metalworkers' union stand together against every form of populism and racism. Regardless of where in the world it originates or who is behind it – discrimination stands in stark contrast to our company's values. We have operations in more than 200 countries around the world, and employees from about 170 different nations work at our company. Respect, tolerance and diversity are a matter of course for us, and they form the foundation for our company values. The action that we take together aims to create value and improve quality of life for all – without any form of social exclusion due to national origin, religion, appearance or sexual orientation. Racism can raise its ugly head anywhere: in kindergartens and schools, among the general public, in our free time or at the workplace. For this reason, we should and must take an effective stand against discrimination and for our values – day in and day out.
Press Release | 17. May 2018 | Siemens AG
fresh off the press: Siemens MediaService Industries May 2018 - Industry News
Press Release | 16. May 2018 |
Proposed nominations of future Siemens Alstom Board of Directors completed

    All eleven members of Siemens Alstom's future Board of Directors proposed
    Six independent members, including two designated by Siemens
    Almost 50 percent are women

At its meeting today, Alstom's Board of Directors approved the proposal to the upcoming Annual Shareholder Meeting to appoint all members of the future Board of Directors of the combined entity Siemens Alstom. As previously announced, the Board will comprise eleven members.
Press Release | 15. May 2018 |
IFAT 2018, Hall A1 / Booth 439 - Water 4.0: New control center for Vienna Water
News | 15. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens supplies SGT-800 gas turbines to Panama for the first time
Siemens has received its first order from Panama for six SGT-800 gas turbines. The industrial gas turbines, along with a steam turbine, will provide approximately 440 megawatts of electrical power as part of a flexible combined cycle power plant. This could cover the power demand of approximately 1.9 million residents of Panama. Siemens' customer is the Chinese general contractor Shanghai Electric Group Co. Ltd., which is responsible for building the overall plant. The end customer is the independent power producer Martano, Inc. Commissioning for the power block is scheduled for the fall of 2020.
Press Release | 14. May 2018 |
Modern water industry - Digitalization technology from Siemens improves wastewater plant reliability
News | 14. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Precision biomass dosing - Modernization concept for biogas plants based on automation from Siemens
News | 09. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Second Quarter Results FY 2018
We released our second quarter results for fiscal year 2018 on May 9, 2018. The Conference Call for journalists and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
Munich | 09. May 2018 - 09. May 2018 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens equips Hungarian railway line with European Train Control System

    Siemens to equip the Hungarian line Százhalombatta - Pusztaszabolcs
    26 km long two-track line
    Planned commissionning expected by December 2020

The National Infrastructure Developing Private Company Limited has commissioned Siemens to equip the Hungarian line Százhalombatta - Pusztaszabolcs. Siemens will provide train control system type Trainguard 200, including installation of European Train Control System (ETCS) Level 2 and one Radio Block Center (RBC), as well as 2 electronic signal boxes type Trackguard Simis IS. This new order encompasses 6 railway crossings type Wayguard Simis LC, the entire electricity supply, assembly and telecommunications. The planned commissionning is expected by December 2020.
Press Release | 09. May 2018 |
Transmitter offers high reliability in temperature measurement

    Dual sensor operation with 4 wire sensor connection
    Automatic redundancy switching for lossless recordings
    Wide range of hazardous approvals
    Versatile use in chemical, oil and gas, marine and power generation applications

With Sitrans TH320/420 and TR320/420, Siemens introduces a new generation of reliable HART (Highway Addressable Remote Transducer Protocol) temperature transmitters for a wide range of sensor types suitable for mounting in sensor head and rail mounting. They feature high availability of the measurement signal and ease of use. Due to the safety integrity level (SIL) 2/3 certification according to IEC 61508 the temperature transmitters are particularly suited for safety-critical applications. The devices also have a large number of country specific explosion protection certificates for all zones. They provide reliable results even under extreme conditions up to -50°C. Main application areas include industries such as chemical, oil and gas, marine and power generation.
Press Release | 08. May 2018 |
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q2 FY 2018: Investments in digital industry making an impact

    Revenue was €20.1 billion, nearly unchanged from Q2 FY 2017, and orders were also strong at €22.3 billion, 2% below the high basis of comparison a year earlier which included a substantially higher volume from large orders; the book-to-bill ratio was 1.11
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue was level and orders declined by 1%
    Industrial Business profit of €2.3 billion and Industrial Business profit margin of 11.0%; strong performance led by Digital Factory, held back by a sharp decrease in profit and profitability at Power and Gas
    Net income of €2.0 billion included a €0.7 billion profit from Centrally managed portfolio activities; basic earnings per share (EPS) increased to €2.39, up from €1.75 in Q2 FY 2017
    The successful initial public offering (IPO) of Siemens Healthineers AG included the float of a 15% interest in the business

"Most of our businesses, primarily our digital offerings, showed impressive performance and operationally more than offset structural challenges in fossil power generation. By raising our guidance, we demonstrate our commitment to the company’s capability to master structural change and shape digital industry."
Press Release | 08. May 2018 | Siemens AG
Leasing company Mitsui Rail Capital Europe (MRCE) and Siemens extend their collaboration
Mitsui Rail Capital Europe (MRCE), a full-service locomotive leasing company, has ordered 136 Vectron type locomotives from Siemens in total. MRCE therefore owns one of the biggest Vectron fleets. In March 2018 Siemens and MRCE have agreed to found a joint venture for the maintenance of locomotives. Together, the companies will not only maintain the MRCE fleet, but also reliably service and guarantee the maximum availability of third-party fleets with their innovative maintenance technologies. Both partners are jointly investing in the joint venture, primarily to build a new workshop for locomotives. The groundbreaking ceremony is planned for the current calendar year. The new workshop is scheduled to open in the summer of 2019.
Feature | 08. May 2018 | Siemens Mobility
MRCE orders 25 locomotives from Siemens

    Siemens to deliver 20 Vectron MS and five Vectron DC
    Delivery beginning at the end of 2018
    MRCE Vectron fleet growing to 136 locomotives

Mitsui Rail Capital Europe (MRCE), a full-service locomotive leasing company, has ordered a further 25 Vectron locomotives from Siemens. Ten of these units will be multisystem Vectron locomotives, used for operating across Europe from the Netherlands to Southeast Europe, and will be delivered at the end of 2018. Ten further Vectron MS locomotives are planned for service on the Rhine-Alps Corridor, and will be delivered in the second half of 2019. Five additional units will be equipped as direct-current locomotives (Vectron DC) and are to operate exclusively in Italy. Delivery of these five is planned beginning in March 2019.
Press Release | 08. May 2018 |
Agreement reached on framework for restructuring and future pact for shaping the structural transformation

    Framework agreement for restructuring at Power and Gas (PG) and Process Industries and Drives (PD)
    Cost reduction targets retained, job cuts unavoidable
    At the same time, a future pact for shaping the structural transformation
    Siemens establishes future fund for further qualification of employees

Following intensive exploratory talks, Siemens has reached an agreement with its Central Works Council and the IG Metall labor union regarding a future pact for the digital transformation. The pact defines the framework for the restructuring measures currently required at the Power and Gas Division (PG) and the Process Industries and Drives Division (PD) and is thus the basis for the negotiations that are now beginning regarding a reconciliation of interests and a social plan.
Press Release | 08. May 2018 | Siemens AG
Premium Office – building technology for sophisticated office buildings

    Safe, attractive and comfortable work environment increases productivity
    Digital natives have increased workplace expectations; building technology is crucial for the image of a building and its rentability
    Significantly higher net operating results through superior rentability and lower energy and operating costs

Under the name Premium Office, Siemens is introducing a modular solution of building technologies and services for distinctive office buildings. Premium Office leverages the digitalization of building technologies to transform office buildings into smart high-performance office landscapes. Premium Office offers facility managers, building owners and investors a competitive advantage in the office market and gives building users an attractive place to work.
Press Release | 08. May 2018 |
More driving fun guaranteed - Complex simulations for hybrid vehicles with Simcenter from Siemens PLM Software
News | 07. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Peter Solmssen to resign from Siemens Managing Board

    In the future, Legal and Compliance will be assigned to President and CEO Joe Kaeser
    Andreas Christian Hoffmann will become new General Counsel and head of the Legal and Compliance Department, effective January 1, 2014

Peter Solmssen will resign from the Managing Board of Siemens AG by mutual agreement, effective December 31, 2013. A member of the Managing Board since October 2007, Solmssen has served as General Counsel and head of the Legal and Compliance Department. In the future, the Managing Board area Legal and Compliance will be assigned to President and CEO Joe Kaeser. Andreas Christian Hoffmann will be the new General Counsel and head of the Legal and Compliance Department. He will report directly to the President and CEO.
Press Release | 04. May 2018 | Siemens AG
Go with the flow - Large US water provider modernizes supply network with Siemens measuring technology
News | 04. May 2018 | Digital Industries
Siemens optimizes energy efficiency and reliability of data centers

    Real-time, intelligent management of both cooling production and distribution in data centers
    Improved offering for thermal optimization, saving up to 50 percent of total cooling costs
    Strategic partnership with data center solution provider Vigilent

The Siemens Building Technologies Division is expanding its existing Thermal Optimization offering set for data centers to intelligently ensure both highly efficient cooling production and cooling distribution throughout the entire facility. To improve the way cooling is distributed throughout data center "white space," Siemens is integrating Vigilent's artificial intelligence-based dynamic cooling management solution into its data center portfolio. Siemens will leverage Vigilent's real-time data analysis capabilities to dynamically match cooling to IT load in server rooms. In addition, Siemens strengthened its strategic partnership with Vigilent by becoming a minority shareholder.
Press Release | 02. May 2018 |
Siemens' BlueVault™ energy storage solutions bring clean, reliable power to offshore operations
A clean, reliable power supply is critical for offshore oil and gas assets. Siemens is now applying its extensive electrification experience in the marine industry to offshore oil and gas, with a focus on reducing emissions and risk in particularly unforgiving operational environments. The company's advanced lithium-ion battery-based solution, known as BlueVault™, is suited for both all-electric and hybrid energy-storage applications. BlueVault energy storage solutions are designed to help ensure continuity of power and to minimize carbon dioxide emissions, with an end goal of a low-emissions platform. The battery is designed to maximize life, performance and safety.
Press Release | 01. May 2018 |
Siemens to ensure a reliable power supply for the international airport in El Salvador
Siemens has received an order from Comisión Ejecutiva Portuaria Autónoma (CEPA) to equip the international airport it operates in El Salvador with electrical systems. The airport is scheduled to be significantly enlarged and modernized by 2032. The order covers the supply, installation, testing, and commissioning of high-voltage, medium-voltage, and low-voltage technology for the safe and reliable supply of power to the new terminals. Siemens will carry out the order, which is worth €3.5 million, in a consortium with a local construction company.
Press Release | 27. Apr 2018 |
More than 300,000 employee shareholders: Siemens sets benchmark in ownership culture

    Eighty percent of Siemens employees worldwide now hold shares in the company
    Siemens distributes around €400 million to employees below management – mostly in the form of free shares
    Record number of employees participate in the company's success

Eighty percent of all Siemens employees worldwide are now also Siemens shareholders. In total, around 300,000 of the company's 377,000 employees worldwide hold Siemens shares. The company had aimed to have about 200,000 employee shareholders by 2020. This target has now already been exceeded by a clear margin. In January 2018, the number of employees holding shares in the company was still just 186,000.
Press Release | 26. Apr 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens awarded long-term service agreement for Canadian cogeneration project
Siemens has received an order from Inter Pipeline Ltd ("Inter Pipeline") to provide long-term service for two SGT-800 gas turbine generator sets in Canada. The units are scheduled for operation at the Central Utilities Block (CUB), part of the company's Heartland Petrochemical Complex currently under construction in Alberta's Industrial Heartland near Fort Saskatchewan.
Feature | 26. Apr 2018 | Gas and Power
Barbara Humpton Named Siemens U.S. CEO
Siemens Corporation today announced that Barbara Humpton has been appointed CEO for the United States, effective June 1, 2018. Humpton (57) is currently CEO of Siemens Government Technologies, Inc. (SGT), a Federally-compliant U.S. organization structured to help address national imperatives in energy, infrastructure, automation and marine platforms.
Press Release | 26. Apr 2018 | Siemens AG
Inclusion is more than just accessibility
At Siemens, Inclusion is a holistic mindset. Not only do we want to set an example of accessibility, we want to pave the way for inclusion in other companies. We have learned – you cannot prescribe inclusion in the interplay between man, environment and activity. You need to live accessibility and inclusion in the day to day. Our employees demonstrate how to overcome the “hurdles in the head” every single day – and we support them.
Feature | 25. Apr 2018 | Siemens AG
Wind farm places the first SF6-free Siemens high-voltage switchgear (GIS) into operation
Siemens supplied four bays of the 8VM1 gas-insulated SF6-free high-voltage switchgear (GIS) – which has a capacity of 72.5 kilovolts (kV) – to Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy. The systems were deployed in the Nissum Bredning Vind wind farm in Denmark. The switchgear protect the wind turbines from overloads and short circuits and thereby ensure an uninterruptible power supply. The metal-encapsulated 8VM1 from the blue GIS portfolio was developed specifically for use in offshore wind turbines. They work with the proven vacuum circuit-breaker technology and with clean air as the insulating medium instead of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). The wind farm operators, Nissum Bredning Vindmøllelaug and Jysk Energ, are relying on a new cable and turbine concept at a voltage of 66 kV to connect the four seven-megawatt (MW) wind turbines from Siemens to the grid. Compared with the usual 33-kV grid connection, this new concept increases transmission capacity and lowers the cost of laying cables. The wind farm has been supplying electricity since March.
Press Release | 25. Apr 2018 |
Siemens wins prize for outstanding inclusion of employees with disabilities

    Inclusion as an integral part of the corporate culture and diversity strategy
    New inclusion agreement: digitalization opening up new possibilities for integrating individuals with disabilities

Siemens has won Germany's Inclusion Prize in the Company category for its activities to foster the inclusion of disabled employees. The prize was presented in Berlin, at a ceremony attended by German Federal Minister of Labor and Social Affairs Hubertus Heil. Awarded by the German Federal Employment Agency, the Confederation of German Employers' Associations, Germany's Charter of Diversity and the German Business Forum, the Inclusion Prize for Business is awarded to honor exemplary inclusion practices.
Press Release | 24. Apr 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens extends performance spectrum of synchronous-reluctance drive system

    Integrated motor portfolio of Simotics reluctance motors from 0.55 to 45 kilowatts
    Additional shaft heights 90 and 225
    Encoderless closed-loop control down to a standstill
    Reluctance motor portfolio rounded off with rated speeds of 1500 and 3000 revolutions per minute

Siemens is extending its portfolio of Simotics synchronous-reluctance motors to include the two new shaft heights, AH90 and AH225. With these new additions, the company is addressing calls from renowned manufacturers of pumps, fans, compressors and machine builders in general for different shaft heights. The motors are available in a power range of 0.55 to 45 kilowatts (kW), and now also with rated speeds of 1500 and 3000 revolutions per min-1. In conjunction with the recently launched Sinamics Reluctance Control License, precise encoderless closed-loop torque control is possible down to a standstill. The license enables field-oriented (vector) closed-loop control even when at a standstill – reliably eliminating the possibility of the synchronous motor "stalling" at any time even if the load inertia is not known.
Press Release | 24. Apr 2018 |
Transformers meet connectivity: Siemens introduces Sensformer™ at Hannover Messe

    Sensformer™ will make relevant data available in real-time
    Enable customers to take full advantage of digitalization
    Benefit from Siemens expertise in IoT and cybersecurity

Siemens has launched the world's first comprehensive digital transformer portfolio at Hannover Messe, Germany. The new Sensformer™ merges physics and information and ensures digital intelligence for transformers regardless of their product class, size and rating. As transformers are placed at critical nodes of the power grid, they are perfect sensors for grid conditions containing full information on energy flow. Sensformer™ provides the easy step-in to digitalization for all customers, turning the "voltage regulators" into an info-hub. The data will allow for conclusions on the status of the assets as well as the power grid and thus allow for enhanced flexibility and optimized operation of the entire grid. While currently available solutions are imposing additional hurdles in terms of cost and complexity to customers, Sensformer™ will already be equipped per default with easy-to-use digital intelligence. The basic functionalities of Sensformer™ (incl. hardware, software and cloud access) are kept simple for ease of use. The Sensformer™ also holds the advantage of offering highest stability by limiting physical measurements to the bare minimum as well as avoiding unnecessary IT equipment at site. Siemens will shift its complete transformer portfolio to Sensformer™ starting June 2018.
Press Release | 24. Apr 2018 |
Technology CPUs with expanded handling functions for motion control tasks

    The Simatic S7-1500 Advanced Controller portfolio has two new technology CPUs for motion control tasks
    Standard, safety and motion control functionalities for gearing and camming up to the control of kinematics
    Even challenging motion control tasks can be easily handled in combination with Sinamics servo drive systems
    The "Simatic Safe Kinematics" software library safely monitors kinematics in space – to protect the machine operator

Siemens has expanded its Simatic S7-1500 Advanced Controller portfolio for challenging automation applications to include two new technology CPUs that combine standard, safety and motion control functionalities in a single device. The 1515SP PC2 T CPU and fail-safe 1515SP PC2 TF CPU complement the range of Open Controllers. They are suitable for motion control tasks such as gearing and camming, or the control of kinematics with up to four axes – for example for handling applications, such as Pick & Place, Cartesian Portal, Delta Picker and Scara robots. Even challenging motion control tasks can be easily handled in combination with the Sinamics V90 PN, S210 and S120 servo drive systems.
Press Release | 23. Apr 2018 |
Industrial Edge from Siemens adds benefits from the cloud at the field level

    Siemens Industrial Edge closes the gap between local and cloud computing and facilitates high-frequency data exchange at the field level
    Edge apps for intelligent data analysis and increased productivity
    Industrial Edge includes with Edge Management a backend, Edge Devices and Edge Apps

Siemens is introducing a digitalization platform to the market in the form of Siemens Industrial Edge: This extends automation devices by providing data processing at machine level and by bringing highly developed analysis technology and the intelligence of Edge Computing to the manufacturing area in a secure way. Siemens Industrial Edge offers users the possibility of executing a range of descriptive, diagnostic, predictive and prescriptive analytical applications. This allows cloud connectivity (data to cloud) to be used in combination with Edge Apps from Siemens, third party providers or end users themselves in an integrated hardware and software ecosystem (Edge App to Device) for automation components.
Press Release | 23. Apr 2018 |
Extended energy management and app for the mobile recording of consumption data

    Simatic Energy Manager V7.1 for energy management according to ISO 50001 with new functions
    Simatic Energy Manager Basic with web-based engineering for the entry into energy management
    Connectivity to the MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system, for further analyses
    Simatic Energy Manager V1.0 app for iOS and Android for easy, intuitive mobile recording of consumption data

Siemens has expanded its ISO 50001 certified energy management portfolio to include Simatic Energy Manager Basic V7.1. Designed for entry-level energy management, Simatic Energy Manager Basic offers the user energy transparency quickly created by web-based engineering and data connection. The customized design of dashboards and reports enables initial efficiency measures to be derived quickly. If the requirements increase, for example in the direction of batch or material-related analyses, baseline management or energy consumption forecast, the user upgrades to energy management with Simatic Energy Manager PRO V7.1 simply with a license key. Simatic Energy Manager PRO V7.1 now offers not only extended analytical possibilities, but also additional interfaces, such as that to the Simatic S7 Energy Efficiency Monitor for assessing the efficiency of machines and plants. This is a step toward the energy labeling of industrial plants and machines. Also new is the connectivity to the MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system, for further analyses.
Press Release | 23. Apr 2018 |
Siemens turns the Industrie 4.0 vision into reality with its Digital Enterprise portfolio

    This year's motto: "Digital Enterprise – Implement now!"
    The time has come to implement Industrie 4.0: focus on industry-specific solutions
    MindSphere – the cloud-based, open IoT operating system: rigorous expansion with new partners and further solutions

Siemens is presenting its continuously enhanced Digital Enterprise portfolio for Industrie 4.0, the fourth industrial revolution. "We created the technical prerequisites for this transformation with our range of consistent solutions. By implementing Digital Enterprise solutions, users and customers can now tap into the full potential of Industrie 4.0," said Klaus Helmrich, member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG, at the press conference for Hannover Messe on April 23. On 3,500 square meters of exhibition space in Hall 9 at Booth D35, Siemens is using the motto "Digital Enterprise – Implement now!" to show how companies of any size can use the Digital Enterprise portfolio in various industries to secure real competitive advantages. "With our Digital Enterprise offerings, our customers are already achieving greater flexibility, shorter times to market, higher efficiency and better quality – and they're accomplishing this during ongoing operations. Our customers are thus attesting to the benefits and added value that the Siemens Digital Enterprise offers for the discrete manufacturing and process industries," said Helmrich.
Press Release | 23. Apr 2018 | Siemens AG
Engineering framework with practice-oriented functions for end-to-end work processes

    TIA Portal V15.1: Practice-oriented functional expansions of the engineering framework along the entire value chain
    Spotlight on simulation and virtual commissioning
    Complete validation of machines with Simatic Machine Simulator V1.0 and NX Mechatronics Concept Designer
    Extended applications with redundant Simatic S7-1500R/H controllers and integration of the Sinamics S210 servo converter

With TIA Portal V15.1 (Totally Integrated Automation Portal) Siemens is enhancing its engineering framework with new practice-oriented functions for all phases, from planning to engineering to commissioning. Key topics in TIA Portal V15.1 include new simulation and virtual commissioning options which enable even better digital design of integrated work processes, as well as the expanded application focus with Simatic S7-1500R/H controllers, Sinamics S210 drive integration, Multiuser Engineering, software units and OPC UA functions.
Press Release | 23. Apr 2018 |
New redundancy controllers for mid-sized and large automation applications

    Three new redundancy CPUs for the Simatic S7-1500 Advanced Controller range
    Simple engineering just as with standard CPUs
    Back-up CPU takes control of the process automatically and quickly – without data loss
    Connection of field devices via Profinet ring

Siemens is expanding its Simatic S7-1500 Advanced Controller range with three new CPUs for redundant automation applications. The CPU1513R and CPU1515R are used for small to medium-sized projects with a focus on CPU redundancy. If one CPU fails, the back-up CPU automatically takes control of the process with no data loss and the process continues very quickly. As with the standard CPUs, the engineering of the redundancy CPUs is especially easy for users. The TIA Portal engineering framework and the redundant CPUs synchronize programs and data without the user having to intervene. The CPU1517H is used for larger applications and higher performance requirements. Here, dedicated synchronization modules enable faster, smooth switchover.
Press Release | 23. Apr 2018 |
Siemens launches Additive Manufacturing Network to transform global manufacturing

    New online platform to accelerate growth of 3D printing for industrial use
    Network provides access to on-demand knowledge, expertise, digital tools and production capacity for additive manufacturing
    Online collaboration facilitates digital transactions for the sourcing of high-quality parts
    Early adopter program available now; multiple 3D printing technology leaders currently onboard

Siemens announced today the launch of Additive Manufacturing Network, a new online collaborative platform designed to bring on-demand design and engineering expertise, knowledge, digital tools, and production capacity for industrial 3D printing to the global manufacturing industry. First announced in concept at Hannover Messe 2017, and planned for rollout in mid-2018, the platform is launching today with an early adopter program for designers and engineers, manufacturing service providers, 3D printing machine OEMs, material vendors and software providers to join the new ecosystem. By accelerating the distribution of knowledge, as well as streamlining, monitoring and securing the transactions and commercial processes for sourcing high-quality functional prototypes and serial production parts, Siemens' Additive Manufacturing Network looks to reduce the overall adoption risk of additive manufacturing and create new business opportunities for all members of the global manufacturing community.
Press Release | 23. Apr 2018 |
Siemens at the Hannover Messe 2018
Hanover | 22. Apr 2018 - 26. Apr 2018 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries Save the date
Simotics XP integrated platform concept cuts life cycle costs

    Simotics XP technologically integrated platform concept for all explosion-proof low-voltage motors
    Efficiency rating IE3, improved maintenance conditions plus higher motor availability make for lower life cycle costs
    Optimized planning, engineering and procurement due to short delivery times and accelerated project implementation
    Added scope for optimization using digital twins

With its new generation of Simotics XP motors, Siemens is providing a technologically integrated platform concept encompassing all explosion-proof low-voltage motors. Based on the proven modular Simotics system, this future-proof platform covers all types of protection – making it ideally suited for use in potentially explosive atmospheres in the process industries. The use of standardized selection and engineering tools as well as uniform documentation which can be flexibly adjusted to individual requirements makes for simpler and faster project processing. Together with short delivery times, this can substantially cut project run times. The motor design has been optimized for the process industries, and is available across all protection types in efficiency class IE3. Life cycle costs are reduced despite improved motor availability and better maintenance conditions. By digitally mapping the real plant together with all its components to create a digital twin, Simotics XP becomes a part of the digital enterprise. The knowledge gained as a result can be used across the entire life cycle, permitting further optimization during the planning, engineering and commissioning phase, and also facilitating aftersales services and the stocking of spare parts. Typical applications for the new Simotics XP generation include pumps, fans, compressors, extruders, mixers and agitators.
Press Release | 20. Apr 2018 |
Siemens offers flexible protection of industrial plants supported by Palo Alto Networks

    Safeguarding the interfaces between office and automation networks
    Customized, industry-specific selection of protection levels

Siemens today announces its adoption of Palo Alto Networks® next-generation firewalls (NGFWs) to enhance the protection of industrial organizations in manufacturing and process industries against cyberattacks. The Palo Alto Networks NGFW aims to put in place a high level of protection to secure the increasingly complex interfaces between office and automation networks, as customers continuously seek to benefit from the advantages of digitalization. The NGFWs allow Siemens customers to select from a variety of security levels and adjust them in-line with their own specific needs. The additional firewall will complement Siemens'' Scalance S Industrial Security Appliances which protect devices and network segments.
Press Release | 19. Apr 2018 |
Siemens secures H-class gas turbine order from China

    Siemens H-class gas turbines debut on the Mainland China market
    Most efficient power plant in China 

Siemens secured its first H-class gas turbine order in Mainland China. The company will supply two H-class gas turbines, two steam turbines and four generators for a power plant project in Guangdong Province. The customer is Huadian Fuxin Energy Corporation Limited (Huadian Fuxin), a subsidiary of China Huadian Corporation Ltd (CHD), one of the five state-owned power producers in China. The components will be installed at the CHD Guangzhou Zengcheng combined cooling, heat and power plant (CCHP) project located in Zengcheng District of Guangzhou City. After completion the project will be the most efficient gas-fired power plant in China. Commercial operation is scheduled for the end of 2019.
Press Release | 19. Apr 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens develops SF6-free gas-insulated medium-voltage switchgear
At this year's Hannover Messe, Siemens will present another medium-voltage switchgear that doesn't require sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) as the insulating gas: the 8DAB 12. The system uses clean air consisting only of the natural constituents of ambient air as the insulating gas. The switchgear is a new addition to the 8DA and 8DB product family and also works with the proven vacuum switching technology. A vacuum-interrupter unit handles switching and arc extinguishing, while the natural gas insulates the current-carrying conductors inside the housing of the metal-encapsulated gas-insulated switchgear (GIS). This type-tested system is used to switch high currents at the primary distribution level. The single-pole encapsulated 8DAB 12 is a SF6-free medium-voltage switchgear in the Siemens blue GIS portfolio. Switches and switchgear that use SF6 as the insulating, switching, and extinguishing gas remain an important part of the Siemens portfolio.
Press Release | 18. Apr 2018 |
Greater availability and extended flexibility for modular drive system

    Improved mechanical and electrical design for Sinamics S120 Chassis-2
    Chassis with smaller standard footprint and up to 60 percent lower width
    Benefits of innovated Sinamics S120 Chassis-2 applied to type-tested ready-to-use cabinet solution Sinamics S120 Cabinet Modules-2

Siemens has adapted the electrical and mechanical design of the Sinamics S120 Chassis-2 to meet today’s and tomorrows market requirements. The new frequency converters are designed to meet the very highest demands with state-of-the-art components, an innovated cooling concept with speed controlled fan and is like always type and system tested to ensure the very highest reliability and availability.
Press Release | 17. Apr 2018 |
Siemens black-start technology to provide critical back-up for San Francisco's power grid

    300 megawatts of emergency power can now be provided to San Francisco via the Trans Bay Cable system to restore power following a network event

Siemens announced this week at the IEEE T&D Conference in Denver that it has installed an upgraded control system for the Trans Bay Cable (TBC) project, a high- voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission system with voltage-sourced converter (VSC) technology realized in a modular multi-level converter (MMC) topology. The project includes a 53-mile HVDC cable that runs under the San Francisco Bay. The upgraded system will enable Trans Bay Cable, via their Pittsburg converter station, to restore electricity to the San Francisco peninsula after a severe network event and is the first project of its kind in the U.S.
Press Release | 17. Apr 2018 |
Converter handling simplified by new module for wireless commissioning

    Sinamics G120 Smart Access Module for wireless commissioning of Sinamics G120 converter series
    Wireless commissioning, diagnostics and servicing using mobile devices
    Rapid installation with no need to download additional software
    Intuitive user interface and menu guidance simplify handling

Siemens has extended its Sinamics G120 converter series portfolio to include an option for wireless commissioning, diagnostics and servicing. The new Sinamics G120 Smart Access Module enables the wireless connection of mobile devices such as tablets, smartphones or laptops over WiFi to the Sinamics G120, Sinamics G120C and Sinamics G120P converter series, making for considerably simpler converter handling. The module is set up in a few simple steps using a conventional web browser and any standard operating system. The web server functionality eliminates the need to download any additional software. With its intuitively structured user interface and menu guidance, the module offers outstanding user convenience.
Press Release | 17. Apr 2018 |
Siemens industrial communication relies on Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN)

    Robotic trade fair model demonstrates TSN communication between machine controls
    Standardized interfaces for guaranteed quality of service
    OPC UA PubSub with TSN: reliable communication even under high network load conditions
    Network components, communication processors, software and network management

At Hannover Messe 2018, Siemens will be showcasing a trade fair model to demonstrate the advantages of Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN): TSN enables even more robust and reliable Ethernet communication between machines and plants even under high network load conditions. The model uses OPC UA PubSub (Publisher/Subscriber) together with TSN for machine-to-machine (M2M) communication. The reliability of TSN provides significant advantages for automation applications in industries such as automotive, mechanical engineering and food&beverage. The first Siemens products are expected to be available towards the end of 2018: network components, communication processors, software and network management with TSN functionality.
Press Release | 16. Apr 2018 |
Construction starts at the world's largest hydrogen pilot plant

    World's largest pilot plant for the production of "green" hydrogen at the voestalpine site in Linz, Austria
    Capacity of 6 megawatts: the most effective and advanced plant of its type
    plant is scheduled to be fully operational by spring 2019

An EU-funded flagship project for a CO2-reduced energy future and the decarbonization of steel production is taking shape: today, at the voestalpine site in Linz, the H2FUTURE project consortium, consisting of voestalpine, Siemens, VERBUND, and Austrian Power Grid, together with the research partners K1-MET and ECN, officially gave the go-ahead for construction of the world's largest pilot plant for the production of "green" hydrogen. With a capacity of 6 megawatts, this is the most effective and advanced plant of its type. The partners from industry and power generation will use this facility to research into future breakthrough technologies which are needed to meet global climate goals over the long-term. The plant is scheduled to be fully operational by spring 2019.
Press Release | 16. Apr 2018 |
Fully electric city buses for environmentally friendly short-haul transport
Climate and environment-friendly urban mass transit is a vital component for improving the quality of air in cities and thus the quality of life for the inhabitants. In this respect, municipal bus services are increasingly becoming the object of attention in particular because the buses currently in use around the world are almost always powered by internal combustion engines. In order to lower the harmful emissions associated with them, urban transit operators are turning to alternative propulsion systems for buses. And this is where electromobility plays an important role. Siemens offers public utilities, operators and municipalities a highly efficient complete solution that has been specially developed for inner-city line service using electric buses. It includes the drive motors and power converters for the vehicles, as well as the necessary external charging stations, and is based on the years of experience acquired by Siemens in the design of contact lines and power supply systems. The fully automatic charging system is designed not only for electric bus (eBus) and electric bus rapid transit (eBRT) systems, but also for plug-in hybrid vehicles. It uses the communication standard for electromobility and can be operated as an open system for charging the various types of buses. It is supplied as a turnkey charging system that includes everything from the required electrical and structural engineering services to the integration in the existing power supply grids.
Feature | 13. Apr 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Turkish State Railways signed contract for ten high-speed trains

    Contract worth around €340 million
    Maintenance contract for three years
    Velaro fleet will grow to 17 trains

Turkish State Railways (TCDD) has signed a contract for ten Velaro high-speed trains with Siemens, which submitted the most favorable bid in the tender. The contract is worth around €340 million and also includes maintenance, repair and cleaning of the trains for a period of three years. With this contract, the Turkish Velaro fleet will grow to 17 trains.
Press Release | 13. Apr 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens to deliver gas turbine packages, services for Petrobras’ Sépia FPSO

    Project includes six SGT-A35 aeroderivative offshore gas turbine packages
    Contract includes a long-term service agreement

Siemens Power and Gas, including its Dresser-Rand business, received an order for four SGT-A35 gas turbine power generation packages and two SGT-A35-driven DATUM CO2 compressor packages for MODEC's Sépia floating production, storage, and offloading (FPSO) vessel. The vessel, which is named "FPSO Carioca MV30," will be deployed at the Sépia field operated by Petrobras, located in the giant "pre-salt" region of the Santos Basin approximately 250 kilometers (155 miles) off the cost of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In addition, Siemens will provide long-term expert service and maintenance for the supplied components.
Press Release | 12. Apr 2018 |
Increased productivity for machine tools and Motion Control drive systems with MindApps

    New MindApps for the open cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere
    Analyze MyDrives provides new insight into the drive train
    Manage MyMachines/Remote enables remote access to CNCs

Siemens is launching a new app for drive systems in the field of Motion Control called Analyze MyDrives, and has also introduced Manage MyMachines/Remote, a new plug-in to upgrade its tried and tested Manage MyMachines MindApp for machine tools with the addition of a smart remote feature. Analyze MyDrives and Manage MyMachines/Remote are special MindApps designed specifically for MindSphere, the open IoT operating system from Siemens, which allow users to utilize the benefits of cloud-based services and create added value with machine operation. Digitalizing drive systems or machine tools enables extensive data generated by the drive or machine to be analyzed and put to use. By connecting to MindSphere, this process can be carried out simply by the machine manufacturer or user, significantly improving the efficiency of drive systems and machines and boosting productivity across the production network. In this way, these MindApps provide the starting point for totally new applications for drives or machine tools which enable innovative digital services such as predictive maintenance, energy data management or resource optimization.
Press Release | 12. Apr 2018 |
High performance along the entire value chain with Simotics SD Pro

    New low-voltage motor Simotics SD Pro suitable for mains-fed and converter operation with voltages up to 690 volts
    Multi-voltage capability and reliable adherence to efficiency class IE3 at 50 and 60 hertz
    Industry-specific and country-specific certificates for global use

Simotics SD Pro completes the next generation of low-voltage Simotics SD motors from Siemens. The new variant is equally suited for mains-fed operation or for use with a converter for voltages up to 690 volts (V). There is generally no need to use special filters at the converter output. The Simotics SD Pro motors reliably fulfill the requirements for compliance with efficiency class IE3, irrespective of whether they are operated at 50 or 60 hertz (Hz). Used in conjunction with a comprehensive range of industry-specific and country-specific certificates, they can be used in all the world's most important regions and markets, and also in wide-ranging different plant configurations. The Simotics SD Pro offers the bonus of multi-voltage capability, making it ideal for series production by OEMs. The motors can be stably operated with all power supplies in common use around the world, and fulfill the requirements for compliance with the respective efficiency class at all operating points. This motor variant operates with the utmost reliability and efficiency under even the toughest enviromental conditions such as those prevailing in the oil and gas industry. Typical applications for the low-voltage motors include pumps, compressors, fans, cranes and hoists, conveyors, chippers, coilers, grinders, shears and rolling stands.
Press Release | 12. Apr 2018 |
Siemens to deliver charging stations for electric buses to Denmark

    High-power charging stations for electric buses
    Elimination of noise pollution and harmful emissions

Siemens signed a frame contract with Movia, the largest public transport authority in Denmark, to deliver charging stations with a top-down pantograph for electric buses on request of their municipalities. The contract is a good example of how corporation between public authorities and private companies can help to improve climate change.
Press Release | 11. Apr 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens heightens industrial cyber security by detecting anomalies

    Transparency for industrial plant networks and the software in use
    Comprehensive vulnerability insights
    Industrial Anomaly Detection to identify threats
    Important complementary measure for the Defense-in-Depth security concept

Siemens will present a solution for detecting anomalies in industrial networks at the Hannover Messe 2018. "Industrial Anomaly Detection" enables security-related incidents, such as unauthorized intrusions and malware, to be identified and countermeasures to be taken. The software is pre-installed on an industrial PC (IPC), and easily integrated into industrial environments. Alternatively, it will be enabled to run on network components from Siemens, such as the multiservice platform Ruggedcom RX1500 with Ruggedcom APE. The solution is especially suitable for companies in the automobile production, aerospace, chemical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and water/waste water industries.
Press Release | 10. Apr 2018 |
Siemens sets innovation milestone with first 3D-printed parts for industrial steam turbine
3D-printed oil sealing rings installed on SST-300 steam turbine operating in India Siemens has reached yet another industry milestone in the area of Additive Manufacturing (AM) in the power generation industry with the company's first replacement parts 3D-printed from metal for an industrial steam turbine. The company is utilizing state-of-the-art AM technology to pave the way for greater agility in steam turbine component manufacturing and maintenance and to set new benchmarks for industrial power plant services.
Feature | 10. Apr 2018 | Gas and Power
Norway's rail network goes digital with Siemens technology

    Lineside equipment to be converted to the European Train Control System throughout Norway
    Order volume worth around 800 million euros
    Scheduled completion of rollout lines by 2034
    25 years of service starting with the commissioning of the first line

Bane NOR, the state-owned agency responsible for the Norwegian national railway infrastructure, has contracted Siemens to upgrade the signaling equipment of the entire Norwegian rail network to the European Train Control System (ETCS). Commissioning of the rollout lines is scheduled to be completed by 2034. The contract also includes services for 25 years and is worth around 800 million euros in total.
Press Release | 05. Apr 2018 |
Siemens will digitalize the Norwegian Railway infrastructure

    Biggest rail infrastructure order in Siemens history
    Order worth around 800 million Euros
    Approximately 4,200 track kilometers and 375 stations
    Scheduled completion by 2034

Siemens is to equip the entire Norwegian railroad network of approximately 4,200 track kilometers with the European Train Control System (ETCS) Level 2 type Trainguard combined with the interlocking type Simis W and IP-based wayside network communication solution type Sinet. The order was placed by Bane NOR SF, the state-owned company responsible for the Norwegian national railway infrastructure responsible for owning, maintaining, operating and developing the Norwegian railway network. The new digital signaling system enhances safety, punctuality and capacity on the rail system and is planned to be completed in 2034. The contract also includes maintenance services for 25 years and is worth around 800 million euros in total.
Press Release | 05. Apr 2018 |
Siemens acquires technology leader in Real-Time Locating System solutions

    Real-Time Locating Systems (RTLS) as key technology for the Digital Enterprise Portfolio from Siemens 
    Precise localization to improve efficiency in production and logistics
    Foundation for new flexible production concepts

With effect from March 29, 2018, Siemens has taken over ownership of the company Agilion GmbH based in Chemnitz. Agilion is a leading supplier of industrial Real-Time Locating Systems (RTLS) focusing on applications in production, logistics and maintenance. The company is recognized as a pioneer in the field of RTLS in the Ultra Wide Band (UWB) frequency spectrum. This technology enables highly precise localization within a range of just a few centimeters, tracking of a large number of different assets, and exceptionally easy commissioning. The precise real-time localization of assets such as tools or vehicles will enable manufacturers to optimize their production and logistics processes and so improve their quality, productivity and flexibility.
Press Release | 05. Apr 2018 |
Eurostar e320 high-speed trains for Eurostar International Limited
In December 2010, Siemens received an order from Eurostar International Ltd. for ten interoperable 16-car high-speed trains, and the company ordered an additional seven in January 2015. The trains are based on the Velaro, the world's most diverse high-speed platform. Service with the first Eurostar Velaro was inaugurated in November 2015 between London and Paris through the Channel Tunnel. In May 2017, service also began on the route between London and Brussels. And the Velaro has been running between London and Amsterdam via Brussels since April 2018. The train, designated as the "e320" by Eurostar, provides around 20 more passenger capacity than the previous Eurostar trains. With an overall length of 400 meters, the e320 is the longest member of the Velaro family and has seating for 900 passengers. All 17 trains are currently in operation and cover a total of around 37,000 kilometers a month in service. Passengers are offered free WLAN access, USB ports and services such as TV streaming and films via an onboard entertainment system. In view of these special amenities, the e320 was named "Train of the Year 2017" by the National Rail Awards in the United Kingdom.
Feature | 04. Apr 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Petroecuador selects Siemens industrial gas turbine to power Shushufindi refinery
Petroecuador, Ecuador’s national oil company, recently selected Siemens to supply an 8-MW SGT-300 gas turbine for power generation for its Shushufindi refinery. The refinery is located in the province of Sucumbios, in the eastern part of Ecuador. Commissioning of the new unit is scheduled for the end of this year.
Press Release | 28. Mar 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens awarded high efficiency steam turbine modernization and upgrade project in China
Siemens recently signed an agreement with Shanghai Shenergy Energy Technology Co., Ltd. (Shenergy Technology) to implement a high-temperature subcritical upgrade for a 320MW steam turbine unit at Xuzhou Power Plant, a subsidiary of China Resources Power Holdings Co., Ltd (CR Power) in Jiangsu province. It is estimated that the upgrade will enhance the unit's power output efficiency up to 42.9 percent, reduce its emissions by more than 10 percent and extend its overhaul interval from six to 12 years. This will increase the generation revenue of the plant while reducing maintenance costs significantly. The project is expected to be concluded in mid-2019.
Feature | 27. Mar 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens delivers 26 locomotives for Danish State Railways

    DSB orders Vectron locomotives in AC configuration
    Option for 18 additional locomotives
    Delivery beginning at the end of 2020

Danish State Railways (DSB) and Siemens signed a contract for the delivery of 26 alternating-current (AC) Vectron locomotives. The locomotives will operate in Denmark and Germany. Delivery of the units is scheduled to begin at the end of 2020. The contract with DSB also includes maintenance of the locomotives for ten years and options for the delivery of an additional 18 units and an extension of the maintenance contract for a further five years. The locomotives will be built at the Siemens factory in Munich-Allach.
Press Release | 27. Mar 2018 |
Mitsui Rail Capital Europe and Siemens to found joint venture

    50/50 joint venture for the maintenance of locomotives
    Company to be named Locomotive Workshop Rotterdam (LWR)
    Workshop to be built in the port of Rotterdam

Siemens and Mitsui Rail Capital Europe (MRCE), a full-service locomotive leasing company, have agreed to found a joint venture for the servicing and maintenance of locomotives. The agreement stipulates that Siemens and MRCE each will hold a 50-percent stake in the joint venture and jointly manage the new company. Founding of the firm, pending approval of antitrust authorities, is expected to be completed in the first half of calendar year 2018.
Press Release | 27. Mar 2018 |
Siemens joining BIM alliance buildingSMART International as a strategic member
In March 2018, the Siemens Building Technologies Division joined buildingSMART International (bSI) as a member of the Strategic Advisory Council and several National Chapters. Siemens is the first building technology vendor to become part of this international not-for-profit organization. Created by bSI, the "openBIM" data format defines open, vendor-neutral international standards for BIM (Building Information Modeling). These standards are essential in order to promote rapid digitalization in the built asset sector.
Press Release | 27. Mar 2018 |
Siemens and Atos reinforce their strategic cooperation

    Successful strategic cooperation with Atos, which started in 2011, to be further expanded
    Joint innovation and investment program extended by an additional €100 million, totaling €330 million
    Joint order intake of € 2.5 billion to date, overachieving all expectations
    Ambition to further accelerate joint business until 2020, driven by digital collaboration and joint go-to-market

Siemens and Atos today announce the reinforcement of their strategic co-operation, with plans to accelerate their joint business until 2020 through an ambitious joint go-to-market plan and the strengthening of their joint innovation and investment program. The program has been increased by €100 million, totaling €330 million – more than three times the original sum. This will further support the Siemens and Atos IoT MindSphere-Codex strategic co-operation as well as the joint go-to-market.
Press Release | 26. Mar 2018 |
Business Combination Agreement signed and top Board Members nomination proposals

    Business Combination Agreement signed
    Siemens Alstom's future Board of Directors: Siemens Managing Board Member Roland Busch to be nominated as Chairman and Alstom Lead Director Yann Delabriere to be nominated as Vice-chairman

Siemens and Alstom have set the next key milestone for a champion in mobility. They have entered today into a Business Combination Agreement (BCA) regarding the proposed combination of Siemens' mobility business, including its rail traction drive business, with Alstom. This BCA follows the Memorandum of Understanding signed on 26 September 2017 and the conclusion of the required works council information and consultation process at Alstom regarding the proposed deal. The BCA sets forth the terms and conditions agreed upon by the two companies.
Press Release | 23. Mar 2018 |
Digitalization increases efficiency and security of supply in the water industry

    Plant and process optimization based on a digital twin
    Cloud-based solutions for the efficient use of pumps
    Pre-configured sample solutions for the electrification, automation and drive systems of plants

At the IFAT 2018 trade show for environmental technologies, Siemens will be focusing on the digitalization of water and waste water plants. The solutions on display will cover the entire life cycle of plants - from planning through to operation and maintenance, helping to sustainably reduce energy consumption and lower the overall costs. Companies and municipalities are increasing both the efficiency and security of supply by, for example, planning, simulating and optimizing plants and processes using a digital twin. Innovations include new hardware concepts and industry-specific modules for the Simatic PCS 7 process control system, as well as automation over the TIA Portal using Simatic S7-1200 and S7-1500 and cloud-based solutions for the optimized use of pumps.
Press Release | 22. Mar 2018 |
Optimum machine safety using Extended Safety Integrated functions

    Extended safety functions for Sinamics S210
    New firmware version V5.1 SP1 provides comprehensive protection of machine functions
    Encoders of Simotics S-1FK2 motors with new 22-bit resolution

Siemens extends the Sinamics S210 servo drive system to include the Extended Safety Integrated functions. The existing basic functions such as Safe Torque Off (STO), Safe Stop 1 (SS1) and Safe Brake Control (SBC) are now complemented by extended functions provided by the new firmware versions V5.1 SP1: Safe Stop 2 (SS2), Safe Operating Stop (SOS), Safely-Limited Speed (SLS), Safe Speed Monitor (SSM), Safe Direction (SDI), and Safe Brake Test (SBT). All of these functions ensure machine functions are provided with comprehensive protection. Also the encoders of the Simotics S-1FK2 motors have been updated, to support the new Extended Safety functions and provide an encoder resolution of 22 bits. The motors fitted with the new encoders can be used as replacement parts for previous models. Typical uses for the new drive system include in particular packaging machines, handling applications such as Pick & Place, wood and ceramic processing as well as digital printing.
Press Release | 22. Mar 2018 |
Siemens to deliver SGT-700 compression train for wellhead project in Peru
Siemens was recently selected to supply another SGT-700 mechanical drive compression train for the Camisea gas-condensate asset located in Peru. The equipment, identical to that Siemens supplied in 2011, is essential to the continuing exploration and production of hydrocarbons in Block 88, operated by Pluspetrol Peru Corporation S.A. Due to the natural gas pressure decline of the reservoirs, the Camisea production plan includes a centralized wellhead compression system for all fields.
Press Release | 21. Mar 2018 | Gas and Power
New switch disconnectors with Sitor fuses for semiconductor protection
Siemens expands its 3KF switch disconnector series with versions featuring Sitor fuses for semiconductor protection. Switch disconnectors are used to safely switch on and off electric equipment under load. They protect systems in the event of short circuit and prevent dangerous electrical shocks, e.g. during maintenance work. Compared to switch disconnectors with LV HRC fuses, the new versions with Sitor fuses are even faster. This prevents damage to very sensitive electronic components, e.g. in frequency converters, UPS systems and soft starters for motors. Moreover, the new series excels through streamlined heat dissipation. As a result, the switch disconnectors with Sitor fuses can be used even at high load currents.
Press Release | 21. Mar 2018 |
Siemens to build light rail system for Greater Copenhagen
In a consortium with the general infrastructure contractor Per Aarsleff A/S, Siemens has received an order to build a light rail system in Copenhagen, Denmark, from urban transport development company Greater Copenhagen Light Rail I/S. The contract will be implemented as a turnkey project. Commissioning of the system is planned for 2024.
Feature | 21. Mar 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens to acquire Aimsun

    Aimsun SL will complement the existing Siemens portfolio in the Intelligent Traffic Systems (ITS) segment
    Aimsun to be managed as separate legal entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Siemens AG in the Mobility Division
    Closing planned for April 2018

Siemens is planning to acquire Aimsun SL, a software company headquartered in Barcelona, Spain. The two parties have agreed not to disclose financial details of the deal. The closing is expected in April 2018. Aimsun will be managed as a legally independent company under the roof of the Intelligent Traffic Systems (ITS) business within the Mobility Division.
Press Release | 20. Mar 2018 |
Siemens at Intertraffic 2018
At the Intertraffic 2018, Siemens was showcasing a whole range of pioneering smart solutions, setting the trend for road traffic technology: Among the highlights, Vehicle2x was part of the growing "Internet of Things". Sitraffic ESCoS Road Side Units provides key data for a more precise picture of the current traffic situation. This enables more efficient traffic control, a significant reduction in accident numbers and an even greater cut in emissions than possible up to now. Tunnel management offers road users and tunnel operators a maximum of safety, system reliability and sustainability. The controller Sitraffic sX can adapt optimally to every city, from small and smart, to complex and challenging. Integrated Mobility allows easier and more comfortable travel even across different modes of transportation. Innovative start-up companies from Siemens next 47 had also shown their ideas for future mobility.
Amsterdam | 20. Mar 2018 - 23. Mar 2018 | Siemens Mobility Save the date
Siemens delivers fully automated people mover for the Frankfurt Airport

    Fraport AG orders the Airval people mover
    Connects to the new Terminal 3
    Operation and maintenance for five years with option for additional five years

Fraport AG, operator of the Frankfurt Airport, has commissioned Siemens, lead in a consortium with Max Bögl Group and Keolis Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, to deliver a fully automated Airval people mover. The Airval will connect the Terminal 2 with the new Terminal 3 and the Station at Terminal 1. The line will be 5.6 kilometers long, and have two tracks and three stations. Siemens will deliver 12 fully automated two-car trains equipped with GoA4 Communication Based Train Control Trainguard MT CBTC, the trackwork equipment, the station platform doors, communication system, depot equipment and the power supply system. In addition, Siemens will take over the operation and maintenance of the system for five years with an option to extend service for another five years. The Airval system will be designed and developed at Siemens' Val world center of competence in Toulouse, France. The fully automated people mover is scheduled to begin service at the Frankfurt Airport in 2023.
Press Release | 20. Mar 2018 |
Siemens at Anuga FoodTec 2018
Under the banner "Digital enterprise – implement now", Siemens was showcasing its latest products and solutions for the bakery and confectionary industry at the Anuga FoodTec 2018, the international trade show for food production, which is held from 20 to 23 March.
Cologne | 19. Mar 2018 - 22. Mar 2018 | Save the date
Simplified handling of Sinamics V-converters with new frame size and Profinet connectivity

    New frame size FSAC for Sinamics V20 converter portfolio
    V20 frame size now 40% smaller than predecessor model
    Integrated radio interference suppression filter in V20 enables use in public networks
    Sinamics V90 frame size FSA now available as Profinet version with 200 V line voltage
    V90 with 18% smaller footprint and real-time transmission of process and diagnostic data

Siemens is extending its Sinamics frequency converter portfolio for standard applications Sinamics V20 to include a new frame size, the FSAC in the voltage range 1AC (Alternating Current) 200 V to 240 V 1.1 kW to 1.5 kW. FSAC is replacing the previous FSB frame (1AC 200V). 40% more compact than its predecessor, the new frame size offers even more flexible and exceptionally space-saving application possibilities.
Press Release | 19. Mar 2018 |
Siemens invests in new 3D-printing facility in UK

    Investment of €30 million in state-of-the-art 3D-printing factory
    Creation of more than 50 new advanced manufacturing jobs at Materials Solutions in Worcester
    Part of Siemens' strategy to build a global AM services business
    New AM factory will be fully powered by Siemens Digital Enterprise solutions

Siemens is to make a €30 million investment in a new, state-of-the-art manufacturing facility for Materials Solutions Ltd., its Additive Manufacturing, or 3D-printing specialist. The new building in Worcester, UK, set to open in September 2018, will more than double the company's current footprint, enabling it to increase its fleet of 3D-printing machines to 50. The expansion is also expected to support the creation of more than 50 high quality new jobs in Worcester. This major investment is part of Siemens' plans to build and grow a global business with Additive Manufacturing services for the aerospace industry, the automotive industry and other industries. The new factory will be fully powered by Siemens Digital Enterprise solutions, an end-to-end portfolio comprising software-based systems and automation components which cover every conceivable requirement arising along the industrial value chain. It will therefore harness the potential of digitalisation.
Press Release | 19. Mar 2018 |
Siemens offers arc fault protection for Sivacon S8 switchboard
With the arc fault protection system DEHNshort from the company Dehn + Söhne, Siemens is expanding its range for certified panel builders. The system for the Sivacon S8 low-voltage switchboard detects arc faults already as they occur and extinguishes them quickly and safely. This protects against personal injury and damage to assets. The switchboard can resume operation immediately. The system reduces longer downtimes and related subsequent costs. Siemens makes the Sivacon S8 available to its panel builders, so-called Sivacon Technology Partners, per license for further expansion.
Press Release | 18. Mar 2018 |
Light + Building 2018
Under the motto "Digitalize your building," Siemens showed at the light+building trade fair from March 18 to 23, 2018 how commercial buildings can be comfortable while also offering economical operation. Encompassing 1,100 square meters, the Siemens booth featured smart products, solutions and systems. For this, Financial Services from Siemens offers the right financial solution.
Frankfurt am Main | 18. Mar 2018 - 23. Mar 2018 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Information concerning press releases from Siemens Healthineers after the listing as an independent company
Press Release | 16. Mar 2018 |
New charging unit for cost-optimized charging of electric vehicles
At Light+Building 2018, Siemens is presenting a new charging unit for electric vehicles according to IEC standard. With VersiCharge, electric vehicles can be charged quickly, safely and cost-effectively. Compared to the previous model, the charging unit has a more compact design. It meets the higher protection class IP 56 and thus can also be installed in outdoor areas. Moreover, VersiCharge features integrated DC residual current detection. Users can pre-set the beginning of the charging process in two-hour intervals, between two and eight hours.
Press Release | 15. Mar 2018 |
Siemens’ high-pressure, micro-scale, turnkey LNGo solution commences operation in British Columbia, Canada

    Modularized, high-pressure LNGo system helps bridge gap between remote gas supply and remote gas demand via "virtual pipeline"
    Altagas producing approximately 30,000 gallons of LNG per day, with capability to expand

Siemens' Dresser-Rand business recently commissioned an LNGo-HP (high-pressure) micro-scale natural gas liquefaction system for Altagas Ltd. in Dawson Creek, British Columbia, Canada. The modular, expandable LNGo technology enables efficient installation, especially in a demanding environment like Dawson Creek. The Dawson Creek facility, with a capacity of approximately 30,000 gallons of LNG per day, commenced production on January 25, 2018.
Press Release | 15. Mar 2018 | Gas and Power
Smart Spaces – focussing on people
Feature | 14. Mar 2018 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens to build light rail system for Greater Copenhagen

    Tram system as turnkey project
    28 km double track with 29 stations
    27 four-car Avenio trams
    15-year maintenance included

In a consortium with the general infrastructure contractor Per Aarsleff A/S, Siemens has received an order to build a light rail system in Copenhagen, Denmark, from urban transport development company Greater Copenhagen Light Rail I/S. The contract includes 27 four-car Avenio trams, rail electrification, signaling, communication, workshop equipment, overall project management and system integration. The contract will be implemented as a turnkey project. The contract also includes maintenance services for 15 years. Commissioning of the system is planned for 2024.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens and APEX sign broad agreement aimed at unlocking economic growth potential in Brazil

    Memorandum of Understanding addresses shortcomings in Brazilian infrastructure and competitiveness
    Siemens plans to triple its investments in Brazil to €1 billion over the next five years
    Digitalization is creating new global business models and opportunities for Brazil
    Potential catalyst for a new cycle of sustainable growth, equivalent to 3.1 percent of GDP with up to 1.2 million new jobs 

Siemens has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Brazilian Trade and Investment Promotion Agency (Apex-Brasil) in São Paulo. Initiatives outlined in the agreement have the potential to unleash a new cycle of sustainable growth in Brazil over the next five years. During this period, Siemens plans to triple its investments in the country to up to €1 billion, focusing on initiatives relating to electrification, automation and digitalization as a means of promoting social and economic development.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens secures major service contract for Pakistan power plant
Highlighting its commitment to supporting Pakistan in meeting its growing power needs, Siemens has announced the signing of a long-term service agreement with Punjab Thermal Power (Private) Limited to provide comprehensive maintenance, parts and repair services for Punjab Power Plant Jhang for the next 12 years. The agreement includes Siemens' Power Diagnostics, part of the company's "Digital Services for Energy" portfolio of data-driven solutions.With the fifth-largest population in the world, Pakistan is working to spur socio-economic development by delivering reliable and efficient power supply to industries and homes. Located in Haveli Bahadur Shah, Punjab Power Plant Jhang, is expected to add 1.3 gigawatts (GW) to Pakistan's grid, making it one of the largest gas-fired, combined cycle power plants in the country. It will also see the first deployment of Siemens' SGT5-8000H gas turbines in the country, selected for their high power output and record-breaking efficiency. Anticipated benefits of the agreement include increasing the availability of the power plant and reducing the maintenance costs. The agreement covers all the scheduled and un-scheduled outage services for two SGT5-8000H gas turbines, generators, related auxiliaries as well as the supply of spare parts and field services."Pakistan's energy sector is undergoing a transformational period to meet the increasing demand of electricity. We are very proud to contribute to this significant project," said Gianluigi Di Giovanni, Senior Executive Vice President of Siemens Power Generation Services in the Middle East. "With our services, cross-fleet experience and digital capabilities, we look forward to bringing value and on-ground support to Punjab Thermal Power, helping maximize the potential of the plant's overall operations."Siemens' Power Diagnostics use advanced data analytics to help predict and eliminate unplanned downtime, and improve power plant productivity by identifying operational challenges in advance. It will also allow the power plant's team to manage outages more efficiently.The current agreement builds on Siemens' contributions towards strengthening Pakistan's power sector. It comes three months after the company signed the largest ever power generation contract in the country to provide a complete power island solution for Punjab Power Plant Jhang.​
Feature | 13. Mar 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens Integrity Initiative enters Third Funding Round

    Latest funding round backed with US$30 million
    Siemens Integrity Initiative promotes projects seeking to prevent and combat corruption and fraud

The Siemens Integrity Initiative promotes projects around the world that seek to combat corruption and fraud, supporting educational and training programs as well as Collective Action, which is building alliances against corruption in a joint effort between business and institutions to establish clean markets and ensure fair competition. The selection process favors projects that have a direct impact on the private sector and strengthen compliance standards and legal systems.
Press Release | 13. Mar 2018 | Siemens AG
New measuring devices simplify power monitoring in buildings
Siemens enhances its portfolio for power monitoring in buildings with two measuring devices. New are the multichannel current measuring system SEM3 and the 7KT PAC1600 measuring devices. Users can easily install the systems, and thus quickly and easily detect and compare their electricity consumption with time and cost precision for all loads in the building. This makes power consumption transparent, revealing energy hogs or avoidable load peaks. As a result, users can implement more targeted measures for energy savings and cost reduction.
Press Release | 12. Mar 2018 |
Turnkey tramway system for Qatar with catenary-free Avenio trams
Siemens has received an order from the Qatar Foundation for the turnkey construction of a tram system in the capital Doha aimed at transforming Qatar into a knowledge-based society. The order is worth more than 100 million euros. The scope of supply also includes signaling and communication systems, electrification as well as the depot equipment. Siemens will also be equipping four of the stations with platform edge doors. Nineteen Avenio trams will run on 11.5 kilometers of track without any overhead contact lines. The system will be installed on the university campus and serve 25 stations. The trams will be equipped with the Sitras HES energy storage system from Siemens, with energy being supplied at the tram stops.
Feature | 09. Mar 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens tram for Doha honored with the iF Design Award

    Award for the Doha Avenio
    Jury convinced by futuristic design

The Siemens Avenio tram for Doha, in the Emirate of Qatar, has been honored with the iF Design Award 2018. Siemens developed the prize-winning design together with the "Yellow Window" design agency. Clean lines, generous white surfaces and darkened windows characterize the tram's exterior. The interior has a bright and airy ambience, while special sun shades on the roof and tinted insulated glass maintain comfortable interior temperatures. Subtly styled seat fabrics and elegantly designed grab poles underscore the tram's modern character and provide a pleasing passenger experience.
Press Release | 09. Mar 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens to provide long-term maintenance and O&M advisory services for two Sudanese power plants
Building on its commitment to supporting the energy infrastructure in Sudan, Siemens has signed a long-term agreement with the Sudanese Thermal Power Generating Company (STPGC) to provide service and maintenance for the power generating assets and related components operating at the 337 megawatt (MW) Port Sudan and 502 MW Garri power plants.
Feature | 08. Mar 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens to provide congestion-charging solutions for London's Ultra Low Emission Zone

    Software development for the implementation of London's Ultra Low Emission Zone
    Reduced pollution emissions, making London a safer and greener place

Siemens will deliver a major project to develop software for the implementation of London's Ultra Low Emission Zone (ULEZ) for Transport for London (TfL), the organization in charge of the transport system in Greater London. The software will be integrated with existing roadside sensors and Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras deployed by Siemens. It monitors and controls the passing of highly polluting vehicles through designated geographic areas, provides a broader set of data and enables reliable and rapid identification of vehicles that do not meet the emission standards of the Low Emission Zone.
Press Release | 08. Mar 2018 |
Siemens and Munich Airport agree on strategic partnership for digitalization

    Joint development of Munich Airport's digital future
    Siemens is using its IoT operating system MindSphere as a platform for new digital applications

Siemens and Munich Airport have forged a strategic partnership for digitalization in order to work on the airport's digital future together with further partners. Over the coming years, the partners want to use data analytics, Internet of Things (IoT) technologies and artificial intelligence to improve, for instance, the energy efficiency of airport buildings and the logistics for the baggage handling system. Plans also call for using these capabilities to make the time that passengers spend at the facility more pleasant. To meet these goals, Siemens is becoming a developmental partner for LabCampus, the major project for the airport's digital future. For the digital technologies, Siemens is using MindSphere, its open, cloud-based operating system for the Internet of Things.
Press Release | 08. Mar 2018 | Siemens AG
New Partners Join Charter of Trust to Protect Critical Infrastructure

    The AES Corporation, Atos and Enel join coalition
    Charter of Trust outlines ten pathways for action around cybersecurity
    Digital transformation requires secured data and connected systems for energy systems and critical infrastructure 

Siemens, and the eight founding Charter of Trust members, today welcomed The AES Corporation, Atos and Enel to its global cybersecurity initiative at the 2018 CERAWeek® conference in Houston, TX.  With America's energy hub as its backdrop, cybersecurity is a leading topic of conversation at the conference, as energy is the most attacked segment within U.S. critical infrastructure.
Press Release | 08. Mar 2018 |
Wiener Linien and Siemens present design for new metro

    Siemens to build 34 fully automated metro trains for Vienna
    New passenger information system for improved travel comfort
    Higher capacity and more flexible use thanks to new interior design
    Contract signed at the end of 2017 

Vienna's Environment Councilor Ulli Sima, Wiener Linien GmbH & Co KG, the mass transit operator of Austria's capital, and Siemens today presented the design for the new Vienna metro. The six-car trains, called "X cars," carry on the design elements of the city's existing trains and at the same time fulfill the most modern international safety standards. The trains can be walked through from end to end and feature an open and bright interior. The newly arranged seating layout offers an improved sense of spaciousness, optimizes passenger flows and provides barrier-free access to wheelchair and multiple-purpose spaces. A transparent partition behind the driver's cab offers passengers a new perspective of the metro line.
Press Release | 08. Mar 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Digital revolution in Germany's rail network: First digital interlocking in Europe

    Digital interlockings: Decentralized, networked, intelligent
    Latest interlocking generation starts at Erzgebirgsbahn
    Innovative technology ensures greater efficiency in rail operation

Deutsche Bahn AG has just inaugurated digital interlockings for trains. Europe's first digital interlocking (DSTW) has begun operation in Annaberg-Buchholz, on the Erzgebirgsbahn in southeastern Germany, ushering in a revolution for rail control and safety systems. Characteristic for the new interlocking architecture is that the dispatcher's switching commands are transmitted to the points, signals and track contacts via network technology. As a result, previously required individual connections to the individual interlocking elements partly via kilometer-long cable bundles have been eliminated. Signals and points can now be controlled at much greater distances with the DSTW network contacts via a data line.
Press Release | 08. Mar 2018 |
Siemens and Israel Railways sign contract for 60 double-decker regional trains

    First tranche comprises 24 trains
    Maintenance contract for 15 years
    Construction of a maintenance workshop

State-owned Israel Railways (ISR) and Siemens have signed a contract for the delivery of 60 Desiro HC regional trainsets over the next ten years. The order has a total value of around €900 million. The double-decker trains can be ordered in 4-car as well as 6-car configurations. Upon signing the contract, Siemens received the first call for 24 trains – six in a 4-car and 18 in a 6-car configuration. The order includes the maintenance of the first 24 trains over a period of 15 years, the construction of a maintenance workshop in Ashkelon, and further options for maintenance. "This order is strategically important for us in two respects. For the first time in our company's history, we will be delivering complete trains to Israel. And also for the first time, we've sold our innovative Desiro HC train platform outside of Germany," said Sabrina Soussan, CEO of the Mobility Division.
Feature | 07. Mar 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens delivers five compressor trains for Fermaca pipeline in Mexico

    Exclusive equipment provider at each site which includes a long-term service agreement
    Project part of energy reform program to stimulate Mexico's economic growth

Siemens recently delivered five gas turbine-driven compressor trains to Fermaca Enterprises (Fermaca) for two pipeline stations in Mexico. The pipeline projects, which also include a long-term service agreement, are part of the Comision Federal de Electricidad de Mexico's (CFE) ongoing energy reform program intended to increase the availability of low-cost energy and stimulate the country's economic growth.
Press Release | 07. Mar 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens leads Germany in European patent applications

    Second place in the European Patent Office's application rankings for 2017
    About 19 percent more applications filed in Europe than in the prior year
    7,450 inventions worldwide in fiscal 2017 – 34 inventions per day 

Siemens – followed by Robert Bosch and BASF – submitted more European patent applications than any other German company in fiscal 2017. In addition, among companies worldwide that filed European patent applications in 2017, Siemens advanced from sixth to second place, after the Chinese company Huawei, which was ranked No. 1 for the first time. In 2017, Siemens filed patent applications in Europe for 2,220 inventions – about 19 percent more than in the previous year, representing a greater increase than was achieved by any other company among the top ten. The European Patent Office (EPO) published the latest statistics today in Brussels.
Press Release | 07. Mar 2018 | Siemens AG
Industrial cybersecurity solutions from Secure-NOK for Siemens Ruggedcom portfolio

    Ideal for Power Utilities, Oil &Gas installations and Transportation Systems
    Addressing new and growing cybersecurity challenges

Siemens and the Norwegian industrial cybersecurity company Secure-NOK signed a partnership agreement to integrate new cybersecurity solutions within the Ruggedcom portfolio of rugged network components and to supplement the Siemens Industrial Security portfolio. The combination of Siemens extensive industrial experience and Secure-NOKs technology built and offered solely for industrial purposes offers a flexible solution for infrastructure in industries such as Power Utilities, Oil &Gas installations, Transportation Systems and others with a growing need to protect against cyber threats.
Press Release | 07. Mar 2018 |
World's narrowest arc fault detection device with integrated line protection
Siemens presents at Light+Building 2018 the world's first arc fault detection device (AFDD) with integrated line protection in one modular width (MW). The intelligent device now detects arcing faults in electrical cables and, at the same time, protects against overload and short circuit. In case of critical values, the switch interrupts the circuit, thus providing preventive protection against fires. Due to its narrow design, the type 5SV6 arc fault detection device allows for a particularly space-saving installation: For new electrical installations, this saves 50 percent space, compared to the installation of two separate devices. In existing buildings, the arc fault detection device can be retrofitted very easily and without an additional space requirement. According to the international standard IEC 60364-4-42, AFDDs are strongly recommended all over Europe as the recognized state-of-the-art technology in specific application fields.
Press Release | 06. Mar 2018 |
Siemens to supply signaling technology for metro line extension in Singapore

    World's longest suburban fully automated metro line
    Increasing the capacity and availability
    More than half a million passengers every day 

Siemens is to supply signaling technology for the planned Downtown line 3 (DTL3) extension in Singapore. The order, worth around €90 Mio, comprises the delivery of Siemens' Communications-Based Train Control system (CBTC) for fully automated operations (Grade of Automation 4, GoA4), in 2 new stations and one depot. The order also includes the Platform Screen Doors for the 2 stations. The 2.2 kilometers Downtown Line 3 Extension is due for completion in 2024. With this extension, the Downtown Line will be connected with the Thomson-East Coast Line (TEL), providing commuters more travel options within the rail Singapore mass transit network.
Press Release | 02. Mar 2018 |
Siemens wins first place for "Best Idea Management"

    Award presented by the German Zentrum Ideenmanagement interest group
    More than 160,000 suggestions last fiscal year
    Measurable benefits of over €300 million companywide

Siemens was awarded top honors for its idea management program at the German congress of the Zentrum Ideenmanagement ("Idea Management Center"), which took place in Fulda over the last two days. Within the framework of "3i ideas – initiatives – innovations," as the Siemens idea management program has been called since 1997, the ideas, initiatives and innovations of Siemens employees continue to contribute to the company's success today. Under the program, Siemens employees submitted more than 160,000 suggestions – or an average of more than 400 a day – in fiscal 2017. Nearly 125,000 of these ideas were ultimately implemented, bringing Siemens benefits last year totaling over €300 million – more than ever before.
Press Release | 01. Mar 2018 | Siemens AG
Idea management
3i is the Siemens-wide program that promotes, implements and rewards employee ideas and initiatives. What is a good 3i idea? It is one that identifies "what" should be improved, outlines "how" something can be improved and explains "why" the idea's implementation will be a real improvement for our customers, employees and/or Siemens itself.
Feature | 01. Mar 2018 | Siemens AG
RATP awarded Siemens with train control system for extension of metro line 14 on Grand Paris Express

    Renewal and extension of Communications-Based Train Control system of metro line 14, the backbone of the Grand Paris Express
    Direct access to the Orly airport from the center of Paris
    Conjunction to the future metro lines 16 and 17

Régie autonome des transports parisiens (RATP), the operator of the Paris metro in France, has placed an order with Siemens for the Communications-Based Train Control (CBTC) system of line 14. This line is the backbone of the Grand Paris Express, the planned new fully automated transit network for the French capital. It is the largest transport project in Europe and will support the development of the Greater Paris into a sustainable metropolitan area. The contract comprises the Grade of Automation 4 (GoA4) Trainguard MT CBTC and an option for maintenance services over the system's lifetime.
Press Release | 01. Mar 2018 |
Siemens delivers signaling for a fully automated metro in Malaysia

    Signaling and train control system for Light Rail Transit Line 3 in Greater Kuala Lumpur
    New line has a distance of 38 kilometers
    Intrusion preventive system and platform screen door systems included 

Siemens has received, in consortium with Rasma Corporation Sdn Bhd, an order from Prasarana Malaysia Berhad, the operator of Malaysia's Light Rail Network (LRT), for the supply and installation of signaling and train control system for the planned fully automated Light Rail Transit 3 Line (LRT3) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. MRCB George Kent Sdn Bhd is the appointed Project Delivery Partner (PDP) of LRT3.
Press Release | 27. Feb 2018 |
Digital assistant for maintenance personnel

    Comos Mobile Operations App simplifies plant maintenance
    Intuitive, easy-to-operate user-friendly graphical interface
    Redlining function enables document editing in the field
    Plant data always to hand and easily updatable

With its new Comos Mobile Operations App, Siemens is providing plant maintenance personnel working in the process industries with a handy support tool for their maintenance work and to help them manage occurring events as they happen in the field. Its intuitive, easy-to-operate user-friendly graphical interface is clearly divided into two manageable areas: Maintenance and Events. The app's redlining function allows maintenance personnel to work on documents directly by editing and adding information on the go – making for faster response times. The app is linked to the Comos Asset Information Management System, affording the user access to any required plant data at any time. Information imported using the app is then synchronized back again with Comos.
Press Release | 26. Feb 2018 |
Siemens optimizes drive system performance with digital platform

    Sidrive IQ – the digital platform for drive systems across the entire life cycle
    Platform based on networked drive systems from Siemens
    Added productivity, reliability and serviceability value
    Predefined service packages to address specific customer needs

With Sidrive IQ, Siemens is offering a new digital platform for the evaluation and utilization of drive data based on MindSphere, the cloud-based open IoT operating system in use across wide-ranging industries. Users of networked drive systems are afforded direct access to new functionalities designed to support industrial production and maintenance tasks. The result: increased productivity, reliability and serviceability for complete drive systems over their entire life cycle. Sidrive IQ can be used to support an array of applications in different industries.
Press Release | 26. Feb 2018 |
Siemens presents industry-specific implementation of the Digital Enterprise

    Booth slogan: "Digital Enterprise – Implement now"
    The time for implementation has arrived: Focus on industry solutions
    Practical examples and applications demonstrate competitive advantages gained by merging the virtual and real worlds
    MindSphere-Version 3.0 on Amazon Web Services (AWS)

At the Hannover Messe 2018, Siemens will be showcasing a comprehensive series of examples which demonstrate how users can harness the potential of Industrie 4.0 by implementing Digital Enterprise solutions. The focus of the 3,500-square meter booth in Hall 9 is on industry-specific implementation of Digital Enterprise solutions over the whole life cycle. Examples from aerospace, automotive, food and beverage, electronics and machine building as well as the chemical, fiber and oil and gas industries illustrate how companies of any size and from any industry can increase their competitiveness with individual digital solutions – through greater flexibility, efficiency and quality as well as shorter times to market. MindSphere Version 3, concrete use cases and references from Siemens and partners such as OEMs as well as the new global user organization MindSphere World will all be presented in the 700-square meter MindSphere Lounge. Siemens will also be demonstrating how producers can already benefit now from industrialized additive manufacturing, and showcasing Sidrive IQ, the new digital platform for the MindSphere-based evaluation of drive data. Also featured on the Siemens booth will be integrated solutions for industrial enterprises and infrastructure projects in the power utility sector, with the focus on smart energy management using MindApps.
Press Release | 26. Feb 2018 | Siemens AG
Apps for cloud-based services in automation

    New Simatic MindApps for the open IoT operating system MindSphere
    Machine Monitor: Transparency for status and performance of machines
    Notifier: Message distributions from machines and access to alarm data
    Performance Monitor: Availability and productivity of the manufacturing facility

Siemens is launching a number of new apps concerning automation with Simatic systems. The new Simatic MindApps Machine Monitor, Notifier and Performance Monitor are special applications for MindSphere, the open IoT operating system from Siemens. These apps will enable users to make easy use of the advantages of cloud-based services and generate added value. The Simatic MindApps read out relevant data for analysis purposes, for example, from production machines or systems, then process them to create meaningful information, display them on dashboards, or use them for intelligent alerting and messaging.
Press Release | 26. Feb 2018 |
Siemens receives funding approval for developing fuel cell drive for trains

    Siemens and Ballard jointly develop fuel cell drive for trains
    German Federal Ministry for Transportation and Digital Infrastructure funds project with around €12 million
    Mireo regional and commuter train platform to be reference
    Zero-emission operation without overhead lines

Siemens and Ballard Power Systems Inc., a Canadian manufacturer of fuel cells, plan the joint development of a fuel cell drive for the Siemens Mireo train platform. Working together, the two companies intend to develop a new generation of fuel cells with an especially long lifecycle and high power density as well as improved efficiency. RWTH Aachen University is a partner in the research project. The German Federal Ministry for Transportation and Digital Infrastructure (BMVI) will support Siemens and RWTH Aachen with project funding of roughly €12 million as part of the Ministry's "National Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technology Innovation Program". The program will be coordinated by the National Organization for Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technology (NOW GmbH).
Press Release | 26. Feb 2018 |
Upgraded power supply system now protects against hour-long power failures

    Sitop PSU8600 becomes an uninterruptible DC power supply
    Universal application scope in the manufacturing and process industries
    Simple integration in TIA and open automation systems with OPC UA 

Siemens has upgraded its Sitop PSU8600 power supply system with the addition of new supplementary modules to transform it into an uninterruptible direct current (DC) power supply. To achieve this, the new DC UPS module UPS8600 uses the energy stored in BAT8600 battery modules to keep the system up and running in the event of a power failure, and it extends the previous bridging times enabled by the buffer modules from just minutes to hours. The PSU8600 has up to 36 outputs capable of being adjusted between 4 and 28 volts, and all of these can be buffered in the event of a power failure. To maximize buffering time for important loads, it is also possible to selectively shut down certain outputs. The Sitop PSU8600 is particularly suitable for use in applications which place stringent demands on reliability and simple integration, such as the automotive, food or pharmaceutical industries, and in the field of plant and special-purpose machinery building. The enhanced availability with the new UPS8600 makes the power supply ideally suited also for process applications such as in the chemical, oil or gas industry.
Press Release | 26. Feb 2018 |
New generation of soft starters for simple to demanding drive requirements

    New Sirius 3RW5 soft starter generation for the soft starting of three-phase asynchronous motors from 5.5 to 1,200 kW
    Modern hybrid switching technology for efficient switching, saving energy and ensuring a long service life
    Variety of applications including pumping, ventilating and compressing as well as moving and processing
    Comprehensive device range with matching hardware and individual expansions for all requirements

With its Sirius 3RW5 range, Siemens is launching a new generation of soft starters for simple to demanding drive requirements. This comprehensive range of devices for the soft starting of three-phase asynchronous motors from 5.5 to 1,200 kW enables efficient and future-proof machine concepts to be implemented easily and cost-effectively. The new Sirius 3RW5 soft starters are suitable for any drive, they can be easily integrated into the automation system, and they supply data right up to MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system of Siemens. Practice-related functions such as automatic parameterization with changing startup characteristics, and integrated properties such as electrical ruggedness in the case of fluctuating line voltages, support smooth operation in a host of applications.
Press Release | 26. Feb 2018 |
Siemens backs efficient digitalized large-scale production of batteries

    Comprehensive solution portfolio of software, automation and drive technology spanning the entire value chain
    "Green field approach" for a competitive battery production
    Goal is ideally scalable factory for battery cell production
    Participation in upcoming important industry events for the battery industry

Siemens facilitates the efficient large-scale production of batteries with a comprehensive solution portfolio of software-based systems as well as automation and drive technology spanning the entire value chain. The company will be presenting this portfolio at the upcoming important trade fairs Battery Japan, from February 28 - March 2, 2018 in Tokyo, Hannover Messe from April 23 - 27, 2018, CIBF from May 22 - 24 in Shenzhen, The Battery Show Europe from May 15 - 17, 2018 in Hannover, The Battery Show North America, from September 11 - 13, 2018 in Novi, Michigan, and InterBattery, from October 10 - 12, 2018 in Seoul. The Siemens portfolio ranging from production planning and engineering software to automation and drive technology, including industrial communication networks and cloud-based solutions, helps to optimize every step of battery production and thus improve the competitiveness of battery manufacturers.
Press Release | 22. Feb 2018 |
New fine dust sensor to monitor indoor climate

    Laser-based monitoring of particle pollution in buildings
    New addition to sensor range to ensure healthy indoor climate
    Increased sensor life and easy module replacement

In January 2018, the Siemens Building Technologies Division introduced a new fine dust sensor for buildings, rounding out its product offering for a healthy indoor climate. The sensor can be used to monitor and visualize particle pollution and is easy to integrate into building management systems.
Press Release | 21. Feb 2018 |
New vacuum circuit breakers for higher voltage levels
With the Sion 3AE5, Siemens has enhanced its portfolio of vacuum circuit breakers for medium-voltage power distribution. The new circuit breaker is used as an incoming main in air-insulated medium-voltage equipment. In comparison to the previous model, the Sion 3AE5, at a rated voltage of 17.5 Kilovolt (kV), handles higher rated short-circuit currents up to 31.5 kilo amperes (kA) and can run rated operational currents up to 2500 amperes (A). The new, wider drive cover offers room for an additional release and thus more flexible options for use. The circuit breaker can be expanded with different release and interlock mechanisms. The electrical closing lockout provides for more safety. As a key component of a switchboard, circuit breakers reliably switch all operational currents and residual currents, ensure the load flow in the network and protect the distribution network and the connected loads against short circuits. Typical areas of application are ring main units and transformer stations, wind power and photovoltaic systems, as well as power distributions in industrial plants.
Press Release | 19. Feb 2018 |
Siemens and partners sign joint charter on cybersecurity

    Ten action areas for greater cybersecurity
    Call for dedicated government ministries and chief information security officers
    Independent certification for critical infrastructures and solutions in the Internet of Things
    Nine partners present first charter on cybersecurity at Munich Security Conference 

At the Munich Security Conference today, Siemens and eight partners from industry will sign the first joint charter for greater cybersecurity. Initiated by Siemens, the Charter of Trust calls for binding rules and standards to build trust in cybersecurity and further advance digitalization. In addition to Siemens and the Munich Security Conference (MSC), the companies Airbus, Allianz, Daimler Group, IBM, NXP, SGS and Deutsche Telekom are signing the Charter. The initiative is further welcomed by Canadian foreign minister and G7 representative Chrystia Freeland as well as witnessed by Elżbieta Bieńkowska, the EU Commissioner for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
Press Release | 16. Feb 2018 |
Siemens to supply compression train for Johan Castberg FPSO project

    First offshore application for the SGT-750 gas turbine
    Contract booked as part of Siemens Frame Agreement with Statoil

Siemens was selected to engineer, manufacture and commission the SGT-750 gas turbine-driven compression train for Statoil's floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel located in the Johan Castberg oil field in the Barents Sea. The project represents the first offshore application for the SGT-750 gas turbine. Equipment delivery is anticipated mid-2019 with first oil planned for 2022.
Press Release | 13. Feb 2018 |
Siemens to supply compressor train for Nova Gas Transmission Ltd. pipeline expansion

    Aeroderivative gas turbine will drive RFBB36 pipeline compressor
    Siemens compressor train for Winchell Lake Compressor Station for additional pipeline capacity

Siemens received an order from North American pipeline operator, Nova Gas Transmission Ltd. (NGTL), a wholly owned subsidiary of TransCanada Corporation, to supply a gas turbine-driven compressor train for the Winchell Lake Compressor Station in Alberta, Canada. The turbo-compressor train will be a critical part of the NGTL pipeline expansion to transport natural gas to export markets. Commercial operation is expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2019.
Press Release | 08. Feb 2018 | Gas and Power
Siemens participating in redevelopment of New York's LaGuardia International Airport

    Integrated building automation and fire safety for the new Central Terminal B
    Siemens helping to modernize one of the busiest airports in the US
    Better safety and comfort for passengers

A major redevelopment and construction project is designed to completely transform New York's LaGuardia Airport into a world-class transportation hub that will more easily serve the tens of millions of travelers that pass through the airport each year. The Siemens Building Technologies Division is working with Skanska Walsh Joint Venture, the design-build contractor for the redevelopment of Central Terminal B, to deploy a Siemens intelligent infrastructure solution that includes an integrated building automation and fire/life safety system for the new central terminal complex.
Press Release | 07. Feb 2018 |
Siemens to show the advance of digitalization in buildings

    Digital solutions for original equipment manufacturers
    Remote servicing system in the cloud: Climatix IC for heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), heat pumps and chillers
    Room applications with communicative field devices for a healthy indoor climate

Digitalization and the Internet of Things are increasingly transforming building automation. The Siemens Building Technologies Division will present its comprehensive portfolio of products and solutions to advance the digitalization in buildings at the Mostra Convegno Expocomfort (MCE) trade show on March 13 to 16, 2018 in Milan, Italy under its trade show motto “Creating perfect places.” A special focus for Siemens will be its digitalized solutions and systems for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). These offerings give OEMs the opportunity to access new business fields or to enhance service efficiency.
Press Release | 06. Feb 2018 |
Siemens and Perceptive Engineering combining software solutions for the Pharmaceutical Industry
Siemens AG and Perceptive Engineering Ltd announce a partnership which offers Perceptive's PharmaMV and Siemens Simatic Sipat software products closely integrated to provide a versatile solution for advanced control and optimization applications in both continuous and batch pharmaceutical manufacturing. The interest to have APC integrated into a PAT platform is growing significantly within the Life Sciences Industry. Thus, the goal of this collaboration is to offer the Pharmaceutical Industry the integrated combination of technologies that have - independently from each other - established a proven track record in the past decade.
Press Release | 06. Feb 2018 |
Siemens provides grid planning and analysis software PSS E now also in an online store

    Grid planning experts around the world now can purchase subscription-based PSS E licenses online
    Flexibility of this licensing model enables customers to pay for software licenses only when they are needed

Due to the ever advancing digitalization in the energy industry, as of 2018 Siemens is offering a suitable digital way to access its industry-leading PSS E power system planning and analysis software. Customers can quickly and conveniently purchase subscription-based PSS E licenses online. Companies can choose the PSS E licensing option that best aligns with their projects and budgets. This will make it easier for PSS E customers to lower their total cost of ownership and increase productivity.
Press Release | 06. Feb 2018 |
Digital Skills and Access to Finance highlighted as top two Industry 4.0 challenges

    New research from Siemens Financial Services (SFS) identifies six key challenges facing manufacturers in the process of moving to an Industry 4.0 model
    Entitled Practical Pathways to Industry 4.0, the report finds that digital skills and access to finance for digital transformation are the top two challenges to a successful transition
    Without access to appropriate and sustainable third-party finance, manufacturers face a challenge to make the digital transformation needed to remain competitive

Siemens Financial Services (SFS) has released a new research paper which investigates the key challenges facing manufacturers across the globe, as they move to implement Industry 4.0. A digitalized, automated, Industry 4.0 world offers the ability to digitally link people, machinery and systems. For manufacturers, this provides a number of benefits such as improved efficiency, pre-emptive maintenance to improve up-time and closer collaboration as a result of digital data flows.
Press Release | 06. Feb 2018 | Financial Services
Siemens supports WUNsiedler Weg – Energie
On February 5, 2018 in Wunsiedel, Germany, Bavaria's largest battery storage system to date was dedicated by the Managing Director of Stadtwerke Wunsiedel (SWW) Marco Krasser, Secretary of State Franz Josef Pschierer, and Siemens Chief Technology Officer Roland Busch. The Siemens Siestorage system based on lithium-ion batteries has a capacity of 8.4 megawatts. It will ensure the future stability of the distributed power grid and opens up the possibility of the municipal utilities company's participation in the primary control reserve market.
Wunsiedel | 05. Feb 2018 - 05. Feb 2018 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Using sustainable financing solutions to reach the cutting edge of digitalization

    From February 5-9, Siemens will present concrete solutions for ways that companies and investors can shape the digital future.
    Digitalization opens up huge potential for small and mid-sized companies in the manufacturing industry – with productivity gains of up to 10 percent.
    In the energy and infrastructure markets, efficiency gains are used to attain a large degree of sustainability.
    These efforts will require extensive investments, which are made easier with innovative financing solutions like pay-per-outcome financing, software financing and project financing.

During the opening session of Siemens Finance Week in the Siemens Technology and Application Center in Erlangen, about 60 decision-makers from small- and medium-sized enterprises learned about the potential of digitalization and ways that new, customer-centric business models can be introduced with the help of financing solutions. The Company Barometer prepared by the German Chambers of Commerce and Industry shows that 68 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises in Germany see opportunities for new digital business models. The optimization potential is enormous: In the manufacturing industry alone, according to the results of a Siemens Financial Services white paper, productivity can be boosted by up to 10 percent through continued digitalization. Figures from the United Nations Committee on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) indicate that this would amount to business volume of approx. €650 billion globally and €60 billion in Germany.
Press Release | 05. Feb 2018 | Financial Services
Working together for the future of energy supply

    The German energy provider SWW Wunsiedel and Siemens open the "House of Future Energy"
    Siestorage, currently the biggest battery storage system in Bavaria, Germany, launches with a capacity of 8.4 megawatts
    A technology partnership for the WUNsiedler Weg concept
    SWW is the first public utility company on the MindSphere IoT platform

SWW Wunsiedel GmbH and Siemens are working together as technology partners on innovative ways to shape the decentralized power supply of the future. Their first project is the Siestorage battery storage system, which is expected to stabilize the local power grid with a capacity of 8.4 megawatts. As part of the partnership, SWW Managing Director Marco Krasser, State Secretary Franz Josef Pschierer, and Siemens CTO Roland Busch opened the "House of Future Energy" in Wunsiedel, Germany. This permanent exhibition provides information about the "WUNsiedler Weg Energie 2.0" climate protection concept as well as the technologies and business models that can be used to implement the energy transition cost-effectively.
Press Release | 05. Feb 2018 |
Working together for the future of energy supply

    The German energy provider SWW Wunsiedel and Siemens open the "House of Future Energy"
    Siestorage, currently the biggest battery storage system in Bavaria, Germany, launches with a capacity of 8.4 megawatts
    A technology partnership for the WUNsiedler Weg concept
    SWW is the first public utility company on the MindSphere IoT platform

SWW Wunsiedel GmbH and Siemens are working together as technology partners on innovative ways to shape the decentralized power supply of the future. Their first project is the Siestorage battery storage system, which is expected to stabilize the local power grid with a capacity of 8.4 megawatts. As part of the partnership, SWW Managing Director Marco Krasser, State Secretary Franz Josef Pschierer, and Siemens CTO Roland Busch opened the "House of Future Energy" in Wunsiedel, Germany. This permanent exhibition provides information about the "WUNsiedler Weg Energie 2.0" climate protection concept as well as the technologies and business models that can be used to implement the energy transition cost-effectively.
Press Release | 05. Feb 2018 |
New tram fleet for Bremen comes from Siemens
The German operator Bremer Straßenbahn AG (BSAG) has ordered a new tram fleet for the Free Hanseatic City. The order is for 67 Avenio trams and includes an option for up to 17 additional trams. The four-section trains are to be delivered step by step for service in Bremen's tram network beginning in the spring of 2019.
Feature | 31. Jan 2018 | Siemens Mobility
Jim Hagemann Snabe elected new Supervisory Board Chairman

    Shareholders ratify acts of Managing and Supervisory Boards by large majorities
    Dividend proposal of €3.70 per share accepted

Jim Hagemann Snabe is the new Supervisory Board Chairman of Siemens AG. At today's constituent meeting of the new Supervisory Board, the 52-year-old software expert was elected to succeed Gerhard Cromme. Gerhard Cromme's term of office as Chairman and member of the Supervisory Board expired at the conclusion of the 2018 Annual Shareholders' Meeting. A member of the Supervisory Board since 2003, he had been its Chairman since 2007.
Press Release | 31. Jan 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens delivers an additional ten trams for Bremen

    Bremer Straßenbahn AG exercises option in 2017 contract
    Siemens builds a total of 77 trams
    Delivery of the additional trams begins in 2021

The German operator Bremer Straßenbahn AG (BSAG) has ordered an additional ten Avenio trams from Siemens, exercising an option in a contract signed in June 2017, when BSAG ordered 67 Avenio trams. Including the new order, the Hanseatic city’s fleet of Siemens trams will grow to a total of 77. Delivery of the newly ordered trams will begin in 2021.
Press Release | 31. Jan 2018 | Siemens Mobility
First Quarter Results FY 2018
We released our first quarter results for fiscal year 2018 on January 31, 2018. The Press Conference and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
Munich | 30. Jan 2018 - 30. Jan 2018 | Siemens AG Save the date
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q1 FY 2018: Strong order growth highlights successful first quarter

    Orders rose 14% to €22.5 billion and revenue was up 3% at €19.8 €billion, including strong growth contributions from Mobility and Digital Factory and new business particularly resulting from the merger of Siemens' wind power business with Gamesa Corporación Tecnológica, S.A.
    Book-to-bill ratio rose to reach 1.13, the highest ratio since booking of large Egypt orders in Q2 FY 2016
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, orders increased 7% and revenue grew 1%
    Industrial business profit at €2.2 billion, down 14% due mainly to a sharp decline in Power and Gas which more than offset excellent performance in the short-cycle businesses and Mobility; current quarter impacted by negative currency effects while Q1 FY 2017 benefited from a portfolio gain; Industrial business profit margin at 11.0%
    Net income rose 12% to €2.2 billion; the current period included a largely tax-free gain from the sale of shares in OSRAM Licht AG and benefited from sharply lower income tax expenses due mainly to the revaluation of future tax positions following U.S. tax reform; basic earnings per share (EPS) increased to €2.68 from €2.41 in Q1 FY 2017

"The first quarter underlines the strength of our company. We take advantage of the growth momentum of the global economic upturn and set benchmarks in industrial digitalization. We clearly understand our opportunities and we know what we have to do."
Press Release | 30. Jan 2018 | Siemens AG
Siemens Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2018
Siemens held its Annual Shareholders' Meeting at the Olympia Hall in Munich on January 31, 2018.
Munich | 30. Jan 2018 - 30. Jan 2018 | Siemens AG Save the date
World's first 1,100 kV HVDC transformer
On January 24, 2018, the most powerful high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) transformer began its journey from the transformer factory in Nuremberg, Germany, to China. The transformer will first be transported to the harbor in Nuremberg by special heavy load transporter, where it will be loaded onto a ship. Its journey will take it to Rotterdam via the Main-Danube Canal, and from there it will be shipped to China, where it will arrive after several weeks on the high seas. In July 2016, Siemens received an order to manufacture four transformers of this type. About a year later, the world’s first 1,100 kV transformer was completed and successfully passed the tests in the testing facility. The enormous dimensions of the transformer – 37.5 meters long, 14.4 meters tall, and 12 meters wide – posed a logistical challenge for the team. In operation, the transformer weighs just under 900 tons and its efficiency is well above 99% of the rated power. For the first time, the transformer will enable a high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission with low losses over a record distance of 3,284 kilometers with a transmission capacity of 12 gigawatts. HVDC transformers are part of the converter station that convert alternating current into direct current at the beginning of the transmission line and convert it back again at the end of the line. The conversion from alternating current to direct current helps to transmit energy over long distances with low losses. Transformers are key components of an HVDC line: Thanks to the transformer, the Changji-Guquan project will be able to transmit direct current with a huge 1,110 kilovolts for the first time in the world. The new transformer not only makes the transmission of this record voltage level possible, but it is also the world’s most powerful tested transformer with a capacity of 587 megavoltamperes. Siemens has thus achieved a new dimension in high-voltage direct-current transmission. The HVDC line between Changji and Guquan will be operated by State Grid Corporation (SGCC), a Chinese grid operator. The connection is expected to begin operation in 2019.
Feature | 29. Jan 2018 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Press conference MindSphere January 2018
Industry is advancing in giant strides towards digitalization and the utilization of IoT functions and applications. With MindSphere, Siemens has developed a cloud-based open IoT operating system with high performance capability to meet this growing demand.  To provide optimum support for companies facing individual, industry-specific challenges surrounding the digital transformation, January 24, 2018 saw the launch of a worldwide IoT initiative by MindSphere users and Siemens.
Berlin | 23. Jan 2018 - 23. Jan 2018 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries Save the date
Compact Gigabit IEEE 1588 Ethernet switches for seamless reliability

    Precise Time Synchronization according to IEEE 1588
    High Availability Seamless Redundancy (HSR) and Parallel Redundancy Protocol (PRP) according to IEC 62439-3
    Reduced risk of downtime and communication disruption
    Certified for Electric Power, Transportation and Oil & Gas markets

Siemens is expanding its Ruggedcom portfolio with two new compact Ethernet switches. The Ruggedcom RSG907R and the Ruggedcom RSG909R compact Gigabit IEEE 1588 compatible Ethernet switches support HSR and PRP according to the IEC 62439-3 standard. At a time when the electric power industry worldwide is rapidly transitioning to fully digital systems, such as digital substations, the Ruggedcom RSG907R and the Ruggedcom RSG909R help to avoid revenue loss by mitigating the risk of communication disruptions and downtime with a redundant fault tolerant network supporting high bandwidth. In addition to the seamless redundancy Ethernet networking features the device is equipped with redundant power supply inputs for additional reliability. The RSG907R and RSG909R come with a comprehensive set of approvals enabling digitalization in Electric Power, Transportation and Oil & Gas markets.
Press Release | 23. Jan 2018 |
A high port density IEEE 1588 Ethernet switch simplifies migration to fiber optic networks

    High bandwidth to handle growing amounts of data
    Ideal for digital substations, transportation and oil & gas industries
    Built-to-order with simplified field installation and modification

Siemens is expanding its Ruggedcom portfolio with a new Ethernet 19 inch rack switch. The Ruggedcom RST2228 is a rugged Layer 2 rack switch with 4 integrated 1/10 Gbit/s uplinks and up to 24 field modular 10/100/1000 Mbit/s interfaces supporting IEEE 1588 Transparent Clock. Its high port density helps significantly reduce capital expenses by reducing the number of network devices needed. The combination of precision timing and network communication on a single network eliminates maintenance costs related to timing solutions that require dedicated wiring. The device is rugged rated and features an operating temperature from -40 to +85 degrees Celsius, as well as Electromagnetic interference (EMI) immunity. The product can be used in the harsh environments of Electric Power, Transportation and Oil & Gas industries and is ideal to handle ever growing amounts of data.
Press Release | 22. Jan 2018 |
Evonik and Siemens to generate high-value specialty chemicals from carbon dioxide and eco-electricity

    Joint research project launched
    Test plant will produce "green" chemistry and serve as an energy store for eco-electricity
    First plants will have potential to produce 20,000 tonnes a year

Evonik and Siemens are planning to use electricity from renewable sources and bacteria to convert carbon dioxide (CO2) into specialty chemicals. The two companies are working on electrolysis and fermentation processes in a joint research project called Rheticus. The project was launched today and is due to run for two years. The first test plant is scheduled to go on stream by 2021 at the Evonik facility in Marl, Germany which produces chemicals such as butanol and hexanol, both feedstocks for special plastics and food supplements, for example. The next stage could see a plant with a production capacity of up to 20,000 tonnes a year. There is also potential to manufacture other specialty chemicals or fuels. Some 20 scientists from the two companies are involved in the project.
Press Release | 18. Jan 2018 |
HRSG-specialist NEM Energy continues business under Siemens-name
Per January 1st, 2018 Siemens has rebranded and renamed its full subsidiary NEM Energy into Siemens Heat Transfer Technology (HTT). Siemens HTT is a specialist in the field of Heat Recovery Steam Generators for power plants.
Press Release | 17. Jan 2018 |
This content is no longer available.
Press Release | 16. Jan 2018 | Siemens AG
Pioneer position for green solutions in the shipbuilding industry
Scandinavia is the first region in the world to rely increasingly on battery-powered and thus environmentally-friendly technologies in the shipbuilding industry. After "Ampere", the world's first electrical ferry in Norway, and a follow-up order of the Finnish shipping company FinFerries, Siemens has now received an order from Norwegian ferry operator Fjord1. Ampere was put into operation in Norway in May 2015, and has traveled a distance equivalent to more than 1.5 times around the equator. With the change from diesel propulsion to battery, Norwegian ship owner Norled has reduced the cost of fuel by 60 percent. Now Siemens has tailor-made a suitable technical solution for Fjord1. With this contract, the first four battery-driven ferries in the world will run on technology developed and manufactured by Siemens. "Elektra" - the newest member of the electric ferry fleet: In June 2017, the Elektra began regular operation between Nauvo and Parainen in the Turku archipelago. Battery packs, which are charged via the land-based charging stations in the harbor for use by the ferry, serve as the primary source of energy, with Diesel engines used as emergency power units. The Elektra is also Europe's largest car ferry. At nearly 98 meters long and 16 meters wide, the Elektra can transport up to 90 cars per trip. The ferry purchased by FinFerries will now be traveling this route every 15 minutes. The batteries will be charged in roughly five minutes while cars move off and onto the ferry. The two lithium-ion batteries each have a capacity of 530 kWh.
Feature | 11. Jan 2018 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Siemens Financial Services and Fluence announce comprehensive financing program for energy storage customers worldwide

    Diverse suite of financial solutions provide necessary capital to expand growing energy storage sector
    Granting customers access to a combination of proven, bankable energy storage solutions with tailored financing
    Leasing and project finance options for qualified projects using Fluence's industry-leading trio of energy storage platforms

Siemens Financial Services (SFS) and Fluence, a Siemens and AES company, announce a comprehensive financing program to support customers in their investments in energy storage solutions. The new financing program will offer customers leasing and project finance options for qualified projects using Fluence's industry-leading trio of energy storage platforms. Fluence's combination of unmatched energy storage experience, proven technical solutions, and the availability of tailored financial solutions will further drive down the total system costs of energy storage and accelerate the growth of this dynamic segment of the power market, estimated by Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) to be a $100 billion market opportunity by 2030.
Press Release | 11. Jan 2018 | Financial Services
Siemens electrifies metro in India

    Metro Line to connect Ahmedabad in two corridors
    Order volume worth more than €76 million 

The Indian mass-transit operator Metro Link Express for Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad (MEGA) has commissioned Siemens to electrify a 39.2-kilometer metro line in the Indian metropolis Ahmedabad. The line, currently under construction, will run in Ahmedabad city in two corridors, East-West and North-South.
Press Release | 09. Jan 2018 |
The world's first HVDC transformer passes the test for ±1,100 kV level

    The world’s first 1,100 kv transformer for the world’s largest HVDC project in China
    Development, manufacturing and testing in the lead factory in Nuremberg
    The world’s most powerful HVDC transformer with 587 MVA

The world’s first transformer, which Siemens developed and manufactured for high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission systems with what is currently the highest transmission voltage of ± 1,100 kilovolts (kV), recently passed its type test. Siemens developed, manufactured and tested the HVDC transformer in its transformer factory in Nuremberg. It is the first of a total of seven ±1,100 kV transformers that Siemens and a partner company are building for what is currently the world’s largest HVDC transmission system. This type of transformer is among the most powerful single-phase units in the world, with a transmission capacity of 587.1 megavolt amperes (MVA). Siemens is building the transformers in its network of factories led by its Nuremberg plant, in cooperation with its factory for HVDC transformers in Guangzhou, China, as well as another Chinese partner. These factories are manufacturing the machines according to the specifications and documentation of the lead factory in Nuremberg. Commissioning of the world’s largest HVDC link – and thus also the transformers – is scheduled for 2018.
Press Release | 05. Jan 2018 |
Joint statement by Siemens CEO Joe Kaeser and Prime Minister Michael Kretschmer
Talks were held yesterday in Munich between Michael Kretschmer, Prime Minister of the German state of Saxony, and Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG. The two leaders had a good, constructive dialogue in which both sides expressed their understanding of the business and political framework conditions. The conversation took place in an open and trust-based atmosphere.
Press Release | 21. Dec 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens invests in LO3 Energy and strengthens existing partnership
LO3 Energy, an energy-tech company set to disrupt energy grids across the globe, announced an investment from Siemens closing out its series A. In late 2015 Siemens and LO3 started collaborating on projects beginning with the Brooklyn Microgrid. Self-sufficient microgrids play an important role in an energy market that is growing through distributed energy systems — whether they are based on wind, sun, water or biomass — such grids are becoming increasingly significant. LO3 Energy is benefiting from Siemens' development of microgrids such as the one that has been operating in Wildpoldsried, a village in southern Germany, since 2014. While the Brooklyn Microgrid continues to grow, insights from the proliferation of the prosumers and consumers provides Siemens the rationale for building resilient grid systems based on local marketplaces. To date, the initial project has attracted more than 60 community members participating in the Brooklyn Microgrid, and LO3 and Siemens expect to partner on further projects across the globe. Specific terms of the investment were not disclosed.
Press Release | 20. Dec 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens wins a contract for the turnkey construction of a power plant in Tatarstan

    Order volume totals €380 million
    13-year service agreement

Siemens has received an order from its customer Nizhnekamskneftekhim to build a combined cycle power plant on a turnkey basis in Tatarstan. Nizhnekamskneftekhim is a member of the TAIF Group headquartered in Kazan, Tatarstan, Russia. The corresponding contract was signed today by Azat Bikmurzin, General Director of Nizhnekamskneftekhim, and the CEO of Siemens Russia Dietrich Moeller in the presence of the President of Tatarstan His Excellency Rustam Minnikhanov, Deputy Prime Minister of Bavaria Ilse Aigner, TAIF CEO Albert Shigaboutdinov and Siemens CEO Joe Kaeser.
Press Release | 18. Dec 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens Innovation Day 2017 – Unlock the potential with digitalization
Press materials on Siemens Innovation Day and "Inventors of the Year"
Munich | 14. Dec 2017 - 14. Dec 2017 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens builds fully Automated People Mover at Bangkok Airport

    Siemens delivers Airval, its fully Automated People Mover
    Connects terminals at the Suvarnabhumi Airport
    Commissioning in 2020

Interlink Communication Public Company Limited has awarded Siemens to deliver its Airval fully Automated People Mover for the Suvarnabhumi Airport in Bangkok, Thailand. The Airval will connect the current airport terminal with the new satellite terminal. The line will be approximately one kilometer long with four parallel tracks and have two stations. Siemens is to deliver a total of six two-car trains and the Communication Based Train Control system (CBTC) for fully automated operation. The trains will be manufactured at the Siemens plant in Vienna, Austria. The project will be commissioned in 2020.
Press Release | 14. Dec 2017 |
Siemens honors 14 researchers who account for 1,300 inventions

    Inventors come from Germany, Denmark, Austria and the U.S.
    34 inventions per day in fiscal 2017

Siemens has honored 14 particularly resourceful researchers as Inventors of the Year 2017. Together, these scientists are responsible for some 1,300 inventions and 920 patents. Nine of the inventors are from Germany, two are from Austria, one is from Denmark and two others are from the United States. Their inventions range from a solution for the digital power grids of tomorrow to technologies that substantially improve medical diagnostics and extend all the way to current collectors that enable all-electric drive for conventional trucks.
Press Release | 14. Dec 2017 | Siemens AG
First 3D-printed Gas Turbine Blades: Siemens awarded by American Society of Mechanical Engineers
Siemens received an award from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) for its outstanding technological achievement with the first successfully 3D- printed and fully tested gas turbine blades.
Press Release | 12. Dec 2017 |
Siemens launches Pipelines 4.0 to meet evolving needs of North American midstream operators

    Pipelines 4.0 is an integrated approach to the engineering, supply and life cycle optimization of pipeline assets
    The solution builds upon Siemens' extensive pipeline experience, product breadth and expertise in rotating equipment, electrification, automation and digitalization
    Key features include equipment and turnkey packages for pipeline stations, as well as data analytics, life cycle service and cyber security

Siemens has launched Pipelines 4.0, an integrated approach to the engineering, supply and life cycle optimization of pipeline assets, tailored to meet the evolving needs of North American operators. The solution combines equipment and turnkey packages for pipeline stations with data analytics, life cycle service and cyber security, building on the company's extensive pipeline experience, product breadth and domain expertise in rotating equipment, electrification, automation and digitalization.
Press Release | 12. Dec 2017 |
Siemens signs contracts with GECOL to boost power generation capacity in Libya by 1.3 GW

    New power plant projects in Misrata and Tripoli West
    Contracts volume, including long-term service, in the range of 700 million euros

Siemens has signed contracts with the state-owned utility General Electricity Company of Libya (GECOL) to expand Libya’s power generation capacity by approximately 1.3 gigawatts (GW). Under these contracts Siemens will build a 650 MW open cycle power plant in Misrata, equipped with two F-class gas turbines, and a 690 MW open cycle power plant in Tripoli West, equipped with four E class gas turbines. The total volume of EPC contracts, including long-term service agreements, is in the range of 700 million euros.
Press Release | 11. Dec 2017 |
Siemens to provide transformers for HVDC link between England and France

    Siemens will supply four 400 kV HVDC transformers for cross-channel link
    Efficient 2,000 MW power transmission link between France and the UK will supply up to 3 million homes with electricity

Siemens will deliver four transformers, each with a capacity of 400 kilovolts (kV) and 315 megavolt amperes (MVA), on behalf of the British grid operator National Grid. The grid operator will replace the old transformers in the high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) cross-channel link. The new transformers are quieter, have lower transmission losses and will significantly improve the system's reliability. The HVDC link connects France and England and makes it possible to efficiently exchange energy in both directions. The order includes the supply, installation and commissioning of the transformers for the Sellindge converter station in England. Siemens will complete the work by mid-2019.
Press Release | 07. Dec 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens names candidates for election to Supervisory Board in January 2018
The regular election of seven shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG will be held at the company's Annual Shareholders' Meeting on January 31, 2018. The current Supervisory Board has decided – based on the recommendations of its Nominating Committee ‒ to propose the election of four new shareholder representatives:
Press Release | 05. Dec 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens to build a shore power supply system for ships in Cuxhaven
Siemens has received an order from the regional grid operator EWE Netz GmbH to supply the key components of a Siharbor shore power supply system in Cuxhaven. The order includes the complete transformer station as well as the cable feed system for ro-ro (roll-on/roll-off) ships. The plant owner will be the northern German Gesellschaft für Hafeninfrastruktur Niedersachsen Ports (NPorts). With a power output of 630 kilowatts (kW), the plant will supply these ships with electricity during their lay time. They will thus be able to turn off their diesel generators, significantly lowering exhaust gas and noise pollution. The berth is located next to the new factory for wind turbines operated by Siemens Gamesa, which will be the plant's main user in the future. Siemens Gamesa will ship wind turbine components to its sister factory in Hull, UK. The Siharbor system is expected to go into operation by April 2018.
Press Release | 04. Dec 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens partners with Iraq Ministry of Electricity to modernize four power plants

    Upgraded plants will provide safe, reliable electricity to three million people
    Plants will increase power output by over 400 MW
    Project supports Ministry of Electricity's goal to meet energy demands

In a move to help enhance Iraq's energy supply, Siemens announced today the signing of multi-million euro service contracts with the country's Ministry of Electricity. The project will see the maintenance and upgrade services of seven power generating units inside four power plants located in the areas of South Basra, Salah El Deen, Middle Region and Middle Euphrates.
Press Release | 30. Nov 2017 |
Major joint project towards the electrification of aviation
Feature | 29. Nov 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens plans to list Siemens Healthineers on Frankfurt Stock Exchange
Siemens AG is preparing to list its separately managed healthcare unit on the Prime Standard segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange's Regulated Market. This move, which the company's Supervisory Board approved at its meeting today, is planned for the first half of 2018. "For Siemens Healthineers, the public listing is the next logical step and the foundation for expanding our strong position as a leading global supplier of healthcare technology," said Michael Sen, Chairman of the Siemens Healthineers Supervisory Board and the member of Siemens' Managing Board responsible, among other things, for healthcare technology.
Press Release | 29. Nov 2017 | Siemens AG
Simit V9.1 - simulation for faster commissioning and operator training

    Simit Unit Administration integrated into the Simit user interface
    Simplified configuration of PLCSIM advanced coupling
    Bulk engineering using Chem Basic Library spreadsheet calculation – for chemical and pharmaceutical plant simulation
    Data transmission now also via OPC UA client coupling

Siemens has upgraded its Simit simulation platform for virtual commissioning and operator training with a new release. Version 9.1 enables Simit to also be used for virtual commissioning and operator training in modular plants, speeding up actual commissioning by as much as 60 percent and reducing unwanted standstill periods to a minimum, particularly during plant conversion and migration processes. Simit can also be used to implement a realistic operator training system. Version 9.1 comes with an array of innovations designed to improve operating convenience, support simulation modeling and contribute towards improved efficiency, openness and flexibility.
Press Release | 29. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens expands gas-fired power station in Argentina
Siemens has received a contract to expand the Genelba gas-fired power station in Argentina. Working with its Argentine partner Techint, it will expand the power station for the end customer, Pampa Energía S.A. The project, known as Genelba Plus, involves converting the existing power station in Marcos Paz, Buenos Aires Province, into a combined cycle power plant. The expansion will increase the plant's electrical capacity from 168 to around 364 megawatts. The plant is scheduled to be commissioned in mid-2019.
Press Release | 29. Nov 2017 |
Industrie 4.0: The hour of implementation has arrived

    New MindSphere Version 3.0 on Amazon Web Services (AWS) provides access to Siemens APIs and AWS cloud services for faster development
    Simotics IQ: New IoT concept for motors
    New partnership financing service to boost the implementation of Industrie 4.0
    Study affirms annual productivity increase due to digitalization of up to 9.8 percent

Increasing demands by consumers for individual, high-quality products at favorable prices are posing new challenges for industrial enterprises which can only be resolved by digitalization. "With the Digital Enterprise portfolio, the technical conditions have been created for Industrie 4.0. To ensure successful implementation of Industrie 4.0, what we now need is an extended model for cooperative partnership based on mutual respect: Large-scale corporations supply platforms and components, medium-sized enterprises develop their own solutions and business models on this basis, and end customers integrate these into their digital value chain," explained Klaus Helmrich, Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG at the SPS IPC Drives. Siemens will be showcasing a range of innovations at the show designed to shorten the time to market and to improve flexibility, efficiency and quality in the process and manufacturing industries. They range from the new Version 15 of the Engineering Framework TIA Portal through the IoT concept for motors Simotics IQ to the new Version 3.0 of the open cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere. Siemens is also offering financing services such as pay-per-use models designed to simplify the implementation of digital solutions, aimed in particular at medium-sized enterprises.
Press Release | 28. Nov 2017 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Siemens introduces new controllers for complex HVAC applications

    Faster processor and more memory space for complex applications
    Increased connectivity
    Efficient refrigeration control with inbuilt electronic expansion valves drivers

With the new Climatix C600 models the Siemens Building Technologies Division is extending its range of controllers for heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC). These are designed for complex applications comprising up to 8,000 objects, for example a ventilation with integrated chiller unit. The new model series includes easy cloud connection for digitalized services for applications like chillers, heat pumps, district heating stations, air handling units and roof top units. Original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) are thereby enabled to develop new business fields or to increase service efficiency.
Press Release | 28. Nov 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Dedicated safety system design made easy using Simatic SIS compact

    Stand-alone Safety Instrumented System for use in critical areas in process industries
    Customized solution for functional safety for small to medium-sized plant projects
    Pre-configured packages based on proven Simatic components
    Connection to any process control system via Modbus/TCP

The Simatic SIS compact system from Siemens offers a new, stand-alone and flexible Safety Instrumented System for use in critical areas in the process industry. The combination of hardware and software components provides safety functions based on proven automation technology. The Simatic SIS compact system allows easy design of dedicated safety systems, the so called Safety Instrumented Systems (SIS), for monitoring potentially hazardous processes in the process industry and for protecting people, the environment, and the process plant. SIS monitor these processes and automatically intervene as soon as a permissible operating range is exceeded, such as too high pressure or temperature; alternatively, they can notify operating personnel to intervene. This minimizes the risk of potentially hazardous conditions.
Press Release | 28. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens at the SPS IPC Drives 2017
Digitalization is changing our world – and the world of industry – in tangible ways. The digital transformation is creating new competitive advantages and business models in many companies in the manufacturing and process industry. Machine builders and plant engineers can also take advantage of this development and make it usable for their customers. For digital enterprises systems and processes can be comprehensively and uniformly optimized throughout the entire lifecycle of products and plants. At the SPS IPC Drives in Nuremberg, Germany, from November 28 to 30, 2017 – which took place this year under the motto "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise" – Siemens presented in hall 11 specific examples of applications to show how this can be done.
Nuremberg | 27. Nov 2017 - 29. Nov 2017 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries Save the date
Extensive additions to Sinamics G120 portfolio for optimum handling

    Sinamics G120 converter series in new frame size FSG
    Extended push-through heat sink variants for Power Module PM240-2
    Intelligent Operator Panel IOP-2 for Sinamics G series with added functions

Siemens is extending its portfolio of Sinamics G120 converters to include a new frame size, the FSG with voltage ranges from 380 to 480 volts (V) and from 500 to 690 V. This addition means that the innovative PM240-2 Power Modules now cover the entire power range up to 250 kilowatts (kW). The extremely compact design and standard integrated optional features such as integrated DC link reactor or integrated filter to achieve category C2, enable substantial space and cost savings in the control cabinet. The new frame size also allows cable lengths of up to 450 meters to be achieved without the need for additional options. Depending on the application, the Power Module can be configured individually to customer requirements using the correct control unit and matching components.
Press Release | 27. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Light rail from Siemens for San Francisco
San Francisco is considered an especially environmentally friendly city. The urban environment is characterized by an extensive public transport system. In September 2014, San Francisco's Municipal Transportation Agency (SFMTA) has awarded Siemens a contract to deliver an initial 175 light rail cars at a value of USD648 million. The order included an option for additional 85 cars. One year later, SFMTA exercised its option for another 40 light rail vehicles for the public mass transit network. This is one of the biggest orders for light rail cars ever placed in the USA. The trains are being built in the Siemens plant in Sacramento. Today, every third tram or light rail vehicle in the USA is made by Siemens.
Feature | 27. Nov 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Sinamics V90 drive with Simotics S-1FL6 21-bit encoder version and new motor design

    Real-time transmission over Profinet and Pulse Train
    Absolute single-turn encoder with resolution of up to 21 bits for greater efficiency
    New motor design for better connectivity

The user-friendly servo drive system Sinamics V90 from Siemens is particularly suited as a solution for highly dynamic applications. The system comes not only in the form of a high-inertia variant with 400 volts (V) for applications requiring smooth operation, but also as a 200 V version with low inertia motors where highly dynamic performance is called for. Fitted with either Pulse Train (PTI) or Profinet, the motion/process data and diagnostic data can be transmitted in real time between Sinamics V90 and Simatic PLCs. The low inertia motor now features an additional absolute single-turn encoder with a resolution of up to 21 bits, allowing it to determine unequivocal position values and so ensure the great positioning accuracy in the applications.
Press Release | 26. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens strengthens its IoT operating system MindSphere through technology partnership with Software AG
Siemens AG and Software AG announced a partnership to strengthen the presence of the cloud-based open Internet of Things (IoT) operating system MindSphere across industries. MindSphere supports industrial companies in their digital transformation and offers a development platform to a broad customer base where companies can integrate their own applications and services to promote IoT innovations. Software AG brings the highly scalable components of its Digital Business Platform to MindSphere, which help customers to flexibly manage networks of millions of end devices.
Press Release | 23. Nov 2017 |
Siemens develops new Neozed fuse bases
Siemens has developed new base holders for Neozed fuses in one-pole and three-pole designs and sizes D01 and D02. Made of heat-resistant plastic, the new bases replace the existing Siemens devices. Eight new variants for 16 A and 63 A rated currents were developed. The compact devices are especially safe to use and, thanks to new terminals, can be easily mounted in distribution boards. For the first time, the devices are available with LED indicators that clearly show whether the fuse has been tripped due to an overload or short circuit and must be replaced.
Press Release | 22. Nov 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Integrated solutions portfolio for digitalization of motion control drive technology

    Siemens demonstrates consistency of the digital twin using Easysnap application at the SPS IPC Drives 2017
    "Digital Enterprise Suite" features tools for creation of the digital twin
    Apps facilitate the use of plant data collected in MindSphere

At the SPS IPC Drives 2017, Siemens will be demonstrating the consistency of the digital twin over the entire machine life cycle using the example of a packaging machine manufactured by machine builder Easysnap. To achieve this degree of consistency, all the engineering tools required for design, configuration and commissioning interact seamlessly with each other to enable truly integrated engineering. Siemens supplies a comprehensive range of different tools embedded in its "Digital Enterprise Suite" solution portfolio which are designed to enable the creation of a digital twin and so bring about substantial improvements along the value chain. The digital twin can be created using tools such as the Mechatronics Concept Designer, which enables kinematic simulations, and the Sizer configuration tool which uses this data as the basis for determining the required electrical drive values and relevant products.
Press Release | 22. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens to upgrade South Western Railway fleet

    Refurbishment of existing 172-strong Class 444 and Class 450 Desiro fleet
    Order volume worth more than €56 million 

Siemens has received an order to upgrade the fleet of the british train operating company South Western Railway (SWR). Siemens will refurbish the existing 172-strong Class 444 and Class 450 Desiro fleet of trains, which currently operate across the SWR network. The contract is worth more than €56 million.
Press Release | 22. Nov 2017 | Siemens Mobility
All-round IP65-protected Panel and Panel PC for user-friendly operator control and monitoring

    New, all-round IP65-protected Panel and Panel PC for machine-related, cabinet-free visualization and automation
    Simatic HMI TP1200 Comfort Panel PRO and Simatic IPC477E PRO Panel PC: high performance and functionality, many interfaces
    Used in high-end applications and for high-performance visualization tasks
    Extended individual operation through extension units: standard components for tailor-made system solutions

Siemens has extended its system family based on IP65-protected HMI (Human Machine Interface) devices for machine-related, cabinet-free visualization and automation. The Simatic HMI TP1200 Comfort Panel PRO (PROtected) with 12-inch display diagonal and the Simatic IPC477E PRO industrial Panel PC with 15, 19 and 22-inch displays are characterized by high performance and functionality as well as a large number of integrated interfaces. The new operator control and monitoring devices are especially suitable for high-end applications and powerful visualization tasks. Flexible mounting types allow the user easy operation of the machine and an optimal view of the visualization and process.
Press Release | 22. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Extended application scope for Siemens low-voltage motors

    Simotics SD Add low-voltage motors reduce drain on the grid due to low start-up currents
    Compliance with sector-specific specifications in the process industries
    Global certificates for worldwide usage
    Reduced acquisition costs coupled with extended service life

With the introduction of its new Simotics SD Add low-voltage motors, Siemens is extending the application scope of the next-generation Simotics SD low-voltage motor series it launched at the beginning of this year. This marks another step taken by the company towards the expansion of its portfolio of scalable standard motors for use in challenging ambient conditions. By offering low start-up current levels, the characteristic product feature of the Simotics SD Add low-voltage motors, this new addition to the series is opening up greater application scope: for instance, to comply with sector-specific requirements in the process industries, or in fields requiring enhanced grid stability by reducing grid loads in the event of voltage dips. The availability of country-specific certificates means that these motors can be used without restrictions in all regions and markets of importance around the world.
Press Release | 22. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
New IoT motor concept for greater availability and increased productivity

    IoT concept for Simotics motors
    Monitoring the operating condition of motors
    Connection to MindSphere open IoT operating system
    Maximum transparency and increased productivity due to intelligent evaluation: Data analysis by Simotics IQ

With Simotics IQ, the new IoT concept for motors from Siemens, the new Simotics SD low-voltage motors are fitted with a compact sensor box which captures important operating and condition parameters and transmits them by WiFi to the cloud. These operating data can then be stored and analyzed by the Simotics IQ MindApp on MindSphere. The Simotics IQ MindApp provides the user with technical motor data and valuable analytical results on the operation and condition of the motor and proposes, for example, recommended actions for preventive maintenance. This newly acquired operating data transparency allows further increases in productivity to be achieved.
Press Release | 21. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens offers new 3WL10 circuit breaker in compact size 0
With the 3WL10, Siemens has developed a new air circuit breaker in the especially compact size 0 that can handle rated currents of up to 1,250 amperes (A). With this development, Siemens has closed the last gap in the portfolio and now offers circuit breakers for nearly every application, in four sizes and five performance classes from 630 to 6,300 A. The 3WL10 communication-capable circuit breakers reduce space requirements in the switchgear to a minimum. With two individual electronic trip units and various connection options, they can be installed in switchgear in accordance with IEC61439- and be integrated in energy management systems via communications modules and the internal metering function.
Press Release | 21. Nov 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens-built light rail vehicles ready to begin revenue service in San Francisco

    A total of 219 light rail vehicles built at Siemens Sacramento manufacturing hub
    Largest order for light rail vehicles ever received by Siemens in the United States

The first Siemens-built light rail vehicle for San Francisco, U.S., entered revenue service. The new light rail vehicles will be built at the Siemens plant in Sacramento, California. In total, the company will deliver 219 light rail vehicles for San Francisco's Municipal Transportation Agency (SFMTA), Siemens' largest order for light rail cars placed in the U.S.
Press Release | 20. Nov 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Bicycle infrastructure in the Netherlands improved with Siemens technology

    Siemens to deliver 47 self-service bicycle parking facilities at Dutch railway stations
    Secure and convenient parking solution for seamless transition from bicycle to boarding at railway stations
    Contract includes system monitoring for eight years

The Siemens Building Technologies Division (BT) is working with NS Stations, the operator of railway stations in the Netherlands, to optimize bicycle parking at 47 Dutch railway stations with the user-friendly and secure self-service bicycle parking solution from Siemens. The unmanned bike parking facilities will be available for parking privately owned as well as rental bikes. In addition to modernizing and equipping the parking stations, Siemens will provide 24/7 system monitoring to ensure system availability as well as predictive maintenance for a period of eight years. The volume of the contract is 14.2 million euros. Furthermore, Siemens will continue to work with NS Stations to jointly develop future innovations in access systems for manned bicycle parking facilities using RFID technology (Radio Frequency IDdentification).
Press Release | 19. Nov 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Multifunctional controller platform for automation

    Multifunctional platform as a new type of device for Simatic Advanced Controllers – combines conventional control tasks with typical PC tasks
    Reusable high-level language applications are easily created with Eclipse or, model-based, with Matlab Simulink
    With just one item of hardware for less programming effort and a smaller space requirement
    The Advanced Controller portfolio has two new technology CPUs and handling functions for Motion Control tasks

Siemens has expanded its Simatic S7-1500 Advanced Controller portfolio for more challenging applications to include a new type of multifunctional platform that combines control and PC functions in a single device. Two new technology CPUs also widen the portfolio for midrange Motion Control tasks.
Press Release | 19. Nov 2017 |
Web editor for the control of individual logic modules from a smartphone, tablet or PC

    Logo! Web Editor for the Logo! 8 logic module: Define and design individual web pages for smartphone, tablet and PC easily
    Simplest operation and user-friendliness without requiring knowledge of HTML
    Free download – with a library of operating and display elements for a quick start
    Load your own background photo to complement visual sensor data or switching elements, and then control the logic module from a smartphone, tablet or PC

Siemens is complementing its Logo! 8 logic module series with the Logo! Web Editor. With the free web editor for the new Logo! 8 version, which will become available in December, makes it very easy for users to define and design their own web pages for smartphone, tablet and PC. Thus they can visualize and control their Logo! 8 switching and automation solution for building installations, control cabinet, machine or apparatus construction individually and easily via the web. For example, users now use a real photo of their individual automation object as background photo, which could be a photo of a building, and complement it with self-defined visual sensor data or switching elements. They then use a smartphone, tablet or PC to switch their heating or alarm system, or to monitor and regulate the temperature of their swimming pool. Particular importance was placed on making the web editor as easy as possible to use and so user-friendly that no additional knowledge, such as HTML, is required. For a quick start, simple operating and display elements are already included in the library supplied. Additional elements can be easily created and added to the library.
Press Release | 17. Nov 2017 |
New reluctance control license enables sensorless motor control down to standstill

    Firmware 4.8 enables Sinamics S120 converters to operate with synchronous reluctance motors
    System operation with or without position sensor using new Sinamics reluctance control license
    Durable in any operating environment due to field-oriented vector control
    High energy efficiency even at low speeds

Firmware version 4.8 allows Simotics synchronous reluctance motors to also be operated with Sinamics S120 converters, enabling them to benefit from the complex functionalities of the modular S120 product portfolio. The new Sinamics reluctance control license used in combination with the Sinamics Booksize Modules means that precise drive control down to a complete standstill is now possible with and without a position sensor. This applies both for motor and generator operation. Field-oriented vector control across the whole of the operating range makes for a tangibly more robust drive system. Unlike U/f-based methods, for instance, any possibility of motor stalling in the event of load jumps is excluded. Sensorless control also enhances the energy efficiency of the drive, as even in the low speed range it allows the achievement of low values normally only possible using a sensor.
Press Release | 16. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens tackles structural market changes and strengthens global competitiveness

    Structural changes in markets for Power and Gas Division and Process Industries and Drives Division make consolidation of global setup necessary
    Reduction of about 6,900 jobs worldwide, half of them in Germany
    Increased investments in future growth markets offer opportunities

Siemens is responding to the rapidly accelerating structural changes in the fossil power generation market and the commodity sector. A consolidation plan for the Power and Gas Division (PG), the Power Generation Services Division (PS) and the Process Industries and Drives Division (PD) aims to increase capacity utilization at production facilities, drive efficiency and enhance expertise by bundling resources.
Press Release | 16. Nov 2017 | Siemens AG
Powerful and versatile control of heating elements

    Higher performance and new application areas for Siplus HCS4200 Heating Control System with two new power output modules
    Versatile control of electrical heating elements in 45, 75, 110, 230/277 and 400/480 V power grid
    Current measurement integrated in output for diagnosis of heating elements connected in parallel
    Simple, easy engineering and commissioning of industrial heating processes with TIA Portal and Proneta

Siemens has equipped the flexible, modular Siplus HCS4200 Heating Control System for switching and controlling heat emitter arrays and heating elements with two new power output modules (POM). Each output is now even more powerful and it is possible to control voltages from 45 V, making this versatile heating control system even more flexible, and suitable for use in safety extra-low voltage applications, for example.
Press Release | 15. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens presents seamless integrated solutions for additive manufacturing

    "Realize the value of the Digital Enterprise Suite – Industrialize Additive Manufacturing" as this year's booth slogan
    Seamless integrated software and automation solutions for additive manufacturing aimed at machine builders and users
    Innovative value-add services to further speed up the industrialization of additive manufacturing
    Engineering and printing services through to complete additive manufacturing of parts by Material Solutions and Mobility Services

At this year's formnext, the leading trade fair for additive manufacturing (AM), Siemens will be showcasing its seamless integrated solutions for additive manufacturing with the Digital Enterprise Suite. At its booth stretching over an area of around 150 square meters, the company will be demonstrating its portfolio along the entire AM value chain at the show from 14 to 17 November under the banner "Realize the Value of the Digital Enterprise Suite – Industrialize Additive Manufacturing". Products featured at the show cover everything from design and engineering software, simulation tools and matching hardware for complete machine and factory automation through to machine networking with the cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere. Designed to address the requirements of both machine builders and additive manufacturing users, this unique offering from Siemens aims to demonstrate how companies working in the field of additive manufacturing can use digitalization to significantly boost the flexibility and efficiency of their production, reduce both engineering time and time to market, and so consolidate and expand their competitive standing in the global marketplace.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
High-end read device with high-performance image capture

    Simatic MV540 is the first of a new generation of optical read devices
    Higher computing output speeds up the read process
    Read reliability improved through in-depth evaluation of image information
    Versatile process connection to automation technology and MindSphere 

Siemens is expanding its portfolio of optical read devices to include the Simatic MV500 series with significantly improved functionality and a modern design. The first device of the new series is the optical reader Simatic MV540. Despite versatile innovations, it offers compatibility with the predecessor model Simatic MV440 both mechanically and in terms of programming and interfaces. Key to the new, improved performance of the Simatic MV540 is its higher computing power, which significantly accelerates the read process to up to 100 reads per second. In addition, in-depth evaluation of the image information enables improved read reliability under even the most adverse conditions. High-performance accessories such as lenses with electronic focus enable a change of focus within just 200 milliseconds.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2017 |
Siemens' latest version of NX expands toolset for digitalizing the machine shop

    Expanded software toolset integrates additive manufacturing, machining, robotics and quality inspection to digitalize part manufacturing
    Advanced automation capabilities connect end-to-end processes bringing machine shops greater efficiency and shorter time to job delivery
    NX Machining Line Planner uses a digital twin of the complete machining line to optimize high-volume production for complex parts

The latest version of Siemens' NX™ software unites the next generation of tools for additive manufacturing, computer numerical control (CNC) machining, robotics and quality inspection to enable the digitalization of part manufacturing within a single, integrated, end-to-end system. Advanced automation capabilities for computer- aided manufacturing (CAM), including robotic programming, adaptive milling, and tooling design, provide innovative, industry-specific technology to help deliver high- quality products to the market in less time. The new NX Machining Line Planner tool, combined with integrated NX CAM software for feature-based machining, provides new capabilities for industries with high-volume production of complicated parts, such as automotive and industrial machinery. The latest version of NX continues to support end-to-end solutions for additive manufacturing, helping manufacturers realize the goal of using 3D printing for industrial production.
Press Release | 14. Nov 2017 |
Siemens at the formnext 2017
As part of formnext 2017, the leading exhibition for additive manufacturing, Siemens presented its comprehensive solution portfolio for consistent digitalization of additive manufacturing, starting with the design and engineering software, via innovative simulation tools to complete machine and factory automation. In addition to this, Siemens demonstrated how the industrialization of additive manufacturing can be further accelerated by using innovative added value services.
Frankfurt am Main | 14. Nov 2017 - 17. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries Save the date
Switch product line for flexible use in industry and building technology

    Industrial Ethernet switches in electrical and optical version
    Direct (24 V) and alternating (24 V) current for industry and building use
    Up to 24 electrical ports for connecting a large number of nodes
    Profinet CC-A conformity ensures reliable data transmission

With its Scalance XB-100 product line, Siemens is launching a new generation of compact unmanaged Industrial Ethernet switches designed to permit the configuration of electrical and optical line and star topologies in networks. This range of switches is particularly suited for use in industry and in building automation applications. Design features include a large number of ports and interfaces, a lightweight plastic enclosure, and a compact design making it ideal for control cabinet mounting. The switches are also approved for use in potentially explosive atmospheres (ATEX Zone 2, IECEx). As unmanaged switches with no pre-configuration, the Scalance XB-100 products are suitable for immediate use, and come with Profinet CC-A conformity to ensure the reliable transmission of Profinet data.
Press Release | 13. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Industrial security appliances offer protection against unauthorized access

    Scalance SC-600 Industrial Security Appliances – offers protection at the cell level
    Stateful Inspection Firewall with data throughput of 600 Mbit/s
    Configuration via web server, TIA Portal, SNMP and CLI
    Secured remote maintenance in combination with Sinema Remote Connect

Siemens is extending its portfolio offering protection against attacks on software and hardware components at the industrial cell level: The new Scalance SC-600 Industrial Security Appliances have a firewall (Stateful Inspection Firewall) with a data throughput of up to 600 Megabits per second (Mbit/s). Depending on the variant users can also administer VPN tunnels up to 200 IPsec (Internet Protocol Security). Scalance SC-600 also provides convenient options for network structuring via virtual LANs (VLAN) and Network Address Translation (NAT/NAPT). The Scalance SC-600 is configured via the integral web server using the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), Command Line Interface (CLI) or the Step 7 V15 engineering software (TIA Portal). For secured remote access, the new industrial security appliances can be connected via the Sinema Remote Connect management platform.
Press Release | 10. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
TIA Portal V15 engineering framework: Focus on applications, digitalization and efficiency

    New version of the TIA Portal V15 engineering framework with emphasis on applications, digitalization portfolio and engineering efficiency
    Applications enhanced with high-level language programming, integration of additional drive systems and handling functions
    Widening of the digitalization portfolio to include OPC UA functionalities and virtual commissioning
    Standardization and higher engineering efficiency with teamwork, as well as expanded diagnostics of machines and systems

With the new version of the TIA Portal V15 (Totally Integrated Automation Portal), Siemens is extending its engineering framework to include a range of new practical digitalization functions to shorten engineering times. The main features of the innovations are extension of the application possibilities, expansion of the digitalization portfolio, standardization and higher engineering efficiency.
Press Release | 09. Nov 2017 |
Jochen Schmitz appointed CFO of Siemens Healthineers

    Thomas Rathmann leaves company
    Preparations for public listing on schedule

Jochen Schmitz (51) has been appointed CFO of Siemens Healthineers, effective December 1, 2017. Schmitz, who is currently head of Accounting, Reporting and Controlling for the Siemens Group, will succeed Thomas Rathmann, who is leaving Siemens Healthineers by mutual agreement.
Press Release | 09. Nov 2017 | Siemens AG
Annual Press Conference 2017
We released our fourth quarter results and preliminary figures for fiscal year 2017 on November 9, 2017. The Press Conference and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
| 08. Nov 2017 - 08. Nov 2017 | Siemens AG Save the date
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q4 FY 2017: Targets achieved – another outstanding year for Siemens

    Revenue rose 4%, to €83.0 billion; orders were strong at €85.7 billion, just 1% below the high level a year ago despite substantial, ongoing contraction in markets for the Power and Gas Division which recorded large orders in Egypt totaling €4.7 billion in the prior year; the book-to-bill ratio was 1.03
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue rose 3% and orders declined 2%
    Industrial Business profit rose 8%, to €9.5 billion, with double-digit increases at Building Technologies, Digital Factory, Mobility and Process Industries and Drives more than offsetting declines at Power and Gas and Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE)
    Industrial Business profit margin reached 11.2%, with a majority of businesses within or above their target ranges
    Net income up 11%, to €6.2 billion, driven by the strong operating performance; basic earnings per share (EPS) of €7.44, well within the guidance range
    Siemens proposes to raise the dividend €0.10 per share, to €3.70 per share

"Our global team delivered excellent results in fiscal 2017, surpassing even the historic success of last year. Most businesses are stronger than ever and well equipped for the digital age. Nevertheless, we have to tackle structural issues in some individual businesses. There is a lot of work ahead of us in fiscal 2018. We will take advantage of our opportunities in the market and handle challenges carefully, responsibly and rigorously."
Press Release | 08. Nov 2017 | Siemens AG
Sinamics S120 Booksize Motor Modules: new sizes (45A/60A) and new devices (24A) with reduced space requirement

    New Booksize Motor Modules for Sinamics S120 series
    Version with double (C-type) and triple (D-type) overload factor
    24A devices close portfolio gap between 18A and 30A
    New variants offer compact design and higher maximum current

The Booksize Motor Module portfolio has been further developed to include compatible new C and D type Sinamics S120 Booksize Motor Modules. Siemens has added a number of new devices to the existing 3A-30A range. The 24A, 45A and 60A Motor Modules are now available with double overload factor (Continuous C-type), and the 24A modules are additionally available with triple overload factor (Discontinuous D-type). With a 33 percent narrower fit than the existing variants, the new 45A und 60A devices are extremely compact, enabling significant space savings in the control cabinet. The maximum current in the 45A devices has also been increased from 85A to 90A, while the 60A devices now come with a 120A maximum current instead of the previous 113A.A completely new addition to the series are the 24A devices, which will be available as either a C or D type. This closes the gap in the portfolio between 18A and 30A.
Press Release | 08. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens demonstrates first eHighway system in the U.S.

    Demonstration running in California near two largest U.S. Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach
    Siemens truck electrification technology has potential to reduce emissions and improve air quality

Siemens and the "South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD)" are running a one-mile, zero-emission eHighway demonstration in the Californian city of Carson, U.S., near the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. Three trucks hauling freight are running along the stretch of highway which uses Siemens technology to electrify select highway lanes via an overhead catenary system. This catenary system supplies the trucks with electric power, similar to how modern-day trolleys or streetcars are powered on many city streets. The system also allows for truck operation outside of the electrified sections of infrastructure.
Press Release | 08. Nov 2017 | Siemens Mobility
New Access Points for future-proof industrial networks

    Scalance W1788 ensures investment in industrial networks with WLAN Standard IEEE 802.11ac Wave 2
    Optimum implementation of wireless applications with high bandwidths
    Wide-ranging networking scope through integrated switch
    Reliable redundancy in harsh environmental conditions

Siemens is extending its portfolio of network components with Scalance W1788 Access Points, which are designed to facilitate implementation of the current WLAN Standard IEEE 802.11ac Wave 2 in industrial applications. Users will benefit from investment protection for industrial networks, and the assurance of future-proof wireless applications and projects in industrial environments. The standard will enable wireless applications with high bandwidths to be ideally implemented at gigabit data rates – for instance to transmit video data or where a high user density is involved. The integrated switch features two managed Ethernet gigabit ports offering wide-ranging networking possibilities such as link aggregation.The industrial feature (iFeature) iPRP (Industrial Parallel Redundancy Protocol) ensures reliable redundancy via WLAN even in the toughest of ambient conditions.
Press Release | 07. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens to install the electrical systems of two photovoltaic power plants and connect them to the grid

    New order for equipping two solar farms in Pakistan and Brazil with a total capacity of 140 megawatts
    Provision of the entire product portfolio, including turnkey installation by Siemens
    The collaboration between Siemens and the solar inverter manufacturer SMA Solar Technology AG will end on December 31, 2017

Siemens has received an order for the turnkey electrical equipment and installation of two solar farms in Brazil and Pakistan with a total capacity of 140 megawatts (MW). The customer for the PV power plant in Bahawalpur, Pakistan, is the Turkish company Zorlu enerji holding, while the PV power plant in Brazil is operated by Quebec Engenharia. The scope of supply includes, among other things, the transformers and medium voltage switchgear (RMUs) from Siemens as well as solar inverters from its technology partner Wind & Sun Technologies SL (WSTECH). Siemens will install the components as a turnkey project and connect the solar farms to the local power grid. Both plants are expected to go into operation in early 2018.
Press Release | 07. Nov 2017 |
Tenable and Siemens Form Partnership to Secure Critical Infrastructure
Tenable™, Inc., the Cyber Exposure company, and Siemens, a global engineering and technology leader, announced a strategic partnership to help energy, utilities and oil and gas companies close the industry readiness gap with a new solution for industrial asset discovery and vulnerability management. At a time when the risk of cyberattacks against critical infrastructure has grown exponentially, the global leaders in cybersecurity and OT have teamed up to launch "Industrial Security" from Tenable, which Siemens is delivering as a service to help companies secure and protect their critical OT assets.
Press Release | 07. Nov 2017 |
Siemens to deliver key components for combined cycle power plant in the United States

    Two H-class gas turbines and long-term service for the Hickory Run Energy Center
    Capacity to power approximately 1,000,000 homes in Pennsylvania
    Siemens Financial Services to invest equity

Tyr Energy, Inc. has chosen Siemens as the technology partner for the Hickory Run Energy Center – a new 1,000 megawatt natural gas-fired combined cycle power plant (CCPP) to be built by Kiewit Power Constructors Co. in Lawrence County, Pennsylvania. The facility will be a Siemens combined cycle power plant, featuring the Siemens record-breaking H-class technology in a facility designed for fast, flexible operation to support renewable integration. Siemens Financial Services is providing an equity investment and will own 20% of the project alongside Tyr Energy, Inc. and Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc.
Press Release | 06. Nov 2017 |
New smart thermostat from Siemens

    Smart thermostat for residential heating control
    Fast commissioning with integrated navigation assistant
    App for iOS and Android with numerous functions

The Siemens Building Technologies Division will launch a new smart thermostat for residential heating control in November 2017. The RDS110 smart thermostat takes just a few minutes to commission and can be controlled via a mobile phone app.
Press Release | 06. Nov 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens and Omnetric help Con Edison begin smart meter operation in New York

    Siemens EnergyIP software will manage nearly five million meters by 2022
    Con Edison is the first U.S. energy providers capable of recording and processing electric meter data in near real-time
    Solution underpins the utility's strategy to transform to a new energy system, part of New York's "Reforming the Energy Vision" (REV) strategy

Con Edison Company of New York and Orange & Rockland Utilities (O&R), both regulated operating companies of Consolidated Edison, Inc., have begun their advanced metering rollout after the successful initial implementation of Siemens EnergyIP meter data management software. The software solution was implemented by Omnetric Group, the Siemens and Accenture technology services company, dedicated to the energy sector.
Press Release | 02. Nov 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens supplies electrical equipment for underground copper mine in Mongolia

    Underground to surface (drift) conveyor system with gearless drives
    New system extends existing opencast mining
    Copper ore production increased by 95,000 tons per day

Siemens is undertaking the engineering, design, production and supply of the electrical equipment for the Oyu Tolgoi copper mine conveyor system. The delivery comprises the new conveyor system with gearless and conventional drives from thyssenkrupp Industrial Solutions. The new system extends the existing opencast mining facility and is expected to bring 95,000 tons of copper ore to the surface per day. The conveyor system has to overcome a difference in height of almost 1,400 meters. Initial production is expected to commence in 2020. The order value is in the tens of millions of Euros.
Press Release | 02. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Enhanced ultrasonic flow system with high accuracy and low cost of ownership

    New, low-cost Sitrans FS220 clamp-on ultrasonic flow system
    User-friendly interface with setup wizards for simplified operation
    High accuracy of 1% of flow rate
    Newest addition to portfolio of next-generation digital flow systems

Siemens launched the Sitrans FS220 clamp-on ultrasonic flowmeter, the newest addition to the growing portfolio of next-generation digital flow measurement systems from Siemens. Combining the Sitrans FST020 transmitter with Sitrans FSS200 externally mounted sensors, the Sitrans FS220 offers the most commonly required measurement functions with superior accuracy, cost efficiency and ease of use. The new flow system is suitable for multiple industries requiring budget-conscious liquid flow instrumentation, including water and wastewater, power, HVAC and chemical.
Press Release | 02. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Power supplies for the efficient, flexible use of distributed controllers

    5 and 10 ampere power supply for the Simatic ET 200SP
    Flat format for use on distribution boards
    Current monitor for early fault detection and energy management
    Shutdown and isolation of the 24 V supply simplify commissioning and maintenance of the system

Siemens is bringing onto the market the Simatic ET 200SP PS, a single-phase power supply for the Simatic ET 200SP distributed I/O system. The 24 volt power supplies from the Sitop product family supply rated currents of 5 and 10 amperes, and their design, construction and functionality are optimally matched to the distributed controller. An on/off switch for the 24 volts, and plug-in terminals for three load circuits simplify the commissioning and maintenance of the system. The power supply has a current monitor that outputs the momentary output current and enables, for example, optimization of the energy management. A mounting depth of a mere 75 mm allows the power supply to be used on flat distribution boards.
Press Release | 02. Nov 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens supplies propulsion system for research vessel of Oregon State University

    Quiet running due to diesel-electric propulsion
    Blue Drive Plus C improves safety and lowers operating costs
    Launch scheduled for early 2020

On behalf of Lousiana-based Gulf Islands Shipyard, Siemens will supply the propulsion system for a Regional Class Research Vessel (RCRV). The ship is operated by the Oregon State University (OSU). It is used to explore and monitor the ecosystem in the coastal area in order to foster and drive marine science on the coast. The order volume is in the lower two-digit million range.
Press Release | 02. Nov 2017 |
Siemens supports efforts to make working conditions safe worldwide

    Agreement signed with International Labour Organization (ILO)
    The G7's Vision Zero Fund aims to improve occupational safety at factories and construction sites worldwide
    Siemens is the first company to make financial contributions and provide logistical support

Siemens is helping improve occupational health and safety worldwide. The company has signed an agreement with the International Labour Organization (ILO) and committed to providing financial and logistical support for the Vision Zero Fund (VZF) initiated in 2015 by the Group of Seven (G7) countries. The VZF aims to bring together governments, non-governmental organizations, companies, foundations and other institutions in order to improve working conditions for people worldwide. Implementation of the initiative has been assigned to the ILO.
Press Release | 26. Oct 2017 | Siemens AG
I/O extension module for Sinamics V20 increases converter scope

    Optional I/O module for Sinamics V20 converters
    Sinamics V20 I/O module in Plug&Play design for greater flexibility
    Front and rear ports offer compatibility with additional components

For the smallest converter in its portfolio, the Sinamics V20, Siemens is now offering an extension module for the capture and output of digital and analog signals. The Sinamics V20 I/O extension module is mounted on the converter using Plug&Play technology, and provides two additional input and output interfaces, each for 400 volts., increasing both the flexibility and the scope of the Sinamics V20. Using connecting ports on the front and back, the extension module can also be combined with additional accessories from the Sinamics V20 portfolio. These include for instance the BOP (Basic Operator Panel) and the BOP interface module.
Press Release | 26. Oct 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens implements digital fleet management solution in China

    Digitally connecting 19 coal-fired units with a total generating capacity of 9.6 GW
    Advanced diagnostics to increase market response speed and operational efficiency based on fleet-wide connected data collection and analysis
    Running on Siemens MindSphere cloud-based operating system 

In the continuing expansion of its digital power plant solution offerings, Siemens has signed an agreement with China Resources Power Holdings Company Co. Ltd. (CR Power) to implement the setup of an integrated and connected Remote Operation Center (ROC) for CR Power's fleet.
Press Release | 25. Oct 2017 |
100 years of Traffic Light
Over 100 years ago, on August 5, 1914, the first electric traffic light was installed on a city street in Cleveland, Ohio, marking a milestone in traffic management. Berlin’s Potsdamer Platz (photo), at that time the busiest intersection in Europe, installed the famous five-sided traffic light tower made by Siemens in 1924. Today the red-yellow-green signals are an integral part of city landscapes worldwide. On the outside, traffic lights haven’t changed much over the last decades. But inside a traffic light, groundbreaking changes have taken place. Traffic lights have become more intelligent over the years: modern traffic management takes into account the current traffic situation and optimizes traffic flow, for example, by allowing "green waves" or by prioritizing emergency vehicles, buses, and trams.
Feature | 19. Oct 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens Building Technologies wins new global OEM software customer
On October 16, 2017 the Siemens Building Technologies Division signed an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) agreement with Midea, a Chinese manufacturer of heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment. Under this agreement, Siemens Building Technologies will provide building management supervisor software for global distribution of HVAC systems. The product is based on the Desigo CC open building management platform from Siemens.
Press Release | 19. Oct 2017 |
The world's most energy-efficient traffic light

    Summary
    Summary
    Summary

More than 100 years ago - on August 5, 1914 - the first electric traffic light went into operation, a milestone for traffic control. Today, it is hard to imagine a world without the redyellow-green signals. And the success story of the traffic lights is continuing with "1-watt technology". This achievement has enabled Siemens to revolutionize the market and improve the energy efficiency of standard 230 V LED technology by up to 85 percent, a huge benefit for tight city budgets and for the environment. Equipped with the new technology, a typical intersection with around 55 traffic signals (red - yellow - green) avoids more than 6,000 kilograms of harmful carbon emissions a year.
Feature | 18. Oct 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens showcases digitalization applications for machine and plant builders

    Extended Digital Enterprise portfolio for discrete and process industries
    Machine and plant builders use digitalization to develop new business models and speed up time-to-market
    Digitalization applications enhance flexibility, efficiency and quality
    Extended "MindSphere-Lounge" over an area of 1,400 square meters

Siemens will be exhibiting at the "SPS IPC Drives" 2017 with an array of applications and examples of how machine and plant builders can sharpen their competitive edge with digitalization. Exhibiting under the banner "Discover the Value of the Digital Enterprise" in Hall 11 across an impressive 4,400 square meter exhibition space, the company will be presenting the latest additions to its Digital Enterprise portfolio. Innovations featured range from new software versions for more efficient engineering through digital drive systems to the open cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere, which opens up scope for new business models to machine and plant builders. This allows companies across the discrete and process industries to enhance their flexibility, efficiency and speed, for instance by using a "digital twin" to simulate products, production processes or plants and optimize them across the entire value chain.
Press Release | 18. Oct 2017 | Siemens AG, Digital Industries
Siemens providing first-of-its-kind grid stability technology to Dominion Energy in the US

    New Siemens SVC PLUS Mobile (Mobile STATCOM) solution can be located anywhere in order to rapidly restore power grids

Siemens is providing Dominion Energy, a subsidiary of one of the largest producers and transporters of energy in the US, with the company's first Mobile SVC STATCOM technology. The solution keeps the grid stable during disturbances and faults by providing fast and controlled reactive power. Mobile STATCOM gives the utility an unprecedented level of flexibility to move the device anywhere grid support is needed, especially in cases of unexpected outages from extreme weather or unplanned events. Instead of several years of planning and executing a permanently installed substation project, the Siemens STATCOM technology can be moved within days.
Press Release | 17. Oct 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Microgrids from Siemens to improve distributed energy supply in Brazil
Siemens will design and install twelve microgrids for the Brazilian utility Centrais Elétricas do Pará (CELPA). These microgrids will be built in power generation plants (distributed energy systems) in the state of Pará. A central control center in Belém will be able to monitor and control these self-contained island networks. Siemens will deliver and install the suitable automation, protection and control technology. This will improve the analysis of plant data and thus increase the availability and reliability of the plants. It will also make it possible to optimize and better plan the service and maintenance work of the service teams, so that fewer deployments on site are necessary. The two power plants furthest apart are at a distance of 890 kilometers from each other. The systems are scheduled to go into service at the beginning of 2018.
Press Release | 11. Oct 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
New release of Datacenter Clarity LC makes data centers even more efficient

    Alarm visualization and processing in a 3D model
    Collaboration with Intel supports real-time monitoring
    Addition to Integrated Data Center Management Suite (IDCMS)

The new release of Datacenter Clarity LC* Version 3.0, the DCIM (Data Center Infrastructure Management) software from the Siemens Building Technologies Division, seamlessly integrates the Desigo CC building management platform, further improving the management of data center infrastructures. The critical alarms managed in Desigo CC can now be administered directly in Clarity LC via a web service. The system visualizes and processes critical alarms in a 3D model which shows the affected asset in real time. Once the appropriate solution for the alarm has been created in the 3D model, a workflow is set up that tasks the IT and facility management team with the physical implementation of possible changes in the data center. This optimizes the troubleshooting process across disciplines and departments.
Press Release | 09. Oct 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens and the German government (BMZ) support occupational training in Egypt

    Establishment of an occupational training center in the Ain Sokhna area
    Training 5,500 Egyptian youth over the next four years
    Agreement supports localized knowledge transfer and skills building in Egypt 

To drive employment opportunities for Egyptian youth and increase workforce localization in line with Egypt Vision 2030, Germany's Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) and Siemens have signed a strategic alliance agreement to support occupational training in Egypt, with total investment of more than 22 million euro.
Press Release | 09. Oct 2017 | Siemens AG
Paulo Ruiz Sternadt named CEO for Dresser-Rand business
Paulo Ruiz Sternadt (42) has been appointed CEO of the Dresser-Rand business, part of Siemens Power and Gas Division. He succeeds Judith Marks (54) who will leave the company at her own request.
Press Release | 09. Oct 2017 |
Digitalization in rail transport – the Mobility Data Services Center
Utmost reliability and maximum availability are critically important for ensuring the cost-efficient operation of rail vehicles and the infrastructure they use. After all, malfunctions and downtimes cost money, cause delays and frequently also lead to compensation claims from passengers, local transport purchasers and freight customers. Long before faults actually occur, their potential sources should be identified. To provide this information, Siemens is the first company in the rail industry to operate a special data analytics center, located in Munich, Germany.
Feature | 09. Oct 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens celebrates its 170th birthday
On October 12, 1847, Johann Georg Halske and Werner von Siemens founded Telegraphen-Bauanstalt von Siemens & Halske in Berlin. In doing so, they laid the foundation for a company that represents innovative strength, internationality, a focus on quality and customers, the ability to withstand crises, adaptability, and responsibility. These characteristics have turned a 10-man operation on Schöneberger St. 19 in Berlin into a successful global company that has written and is writing innovation and technology history.
Feature | 09. Oct 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens makes investment in Wi-Tronix

    With Wi-Tronix, Siemens expands its digitalized services for predictive maintenance in the rail sector
    Siemens makes a significant strategic equity investment in Wi-Tronix – transaction has been executed in October 2017
    Wi-Tronix to remain a standalone, founder-led company

Siemens and Wi-Tronix, headquartered in Bolingbrook near Chicago, U.S. are launching a partnership to expand digital predictive maintenance for rail services. Through the integration of their technologies, and joint development of new innovations, the companies seek to move the industry toward the objective of one hundred-percent availability of safe, efficient service. Siemens has made a significant equity investment in Wi-Tronix. Both companies have agreed to maintain confidentiality regarding financial details of the deal.
Press Release | 09. Oct 2017 |
170 years of Siemens: from an inner courtyard to the cloud

    Continuous transformation as a recipe for success
    Unchanging characteristics as an innovative, quality-minded, customer-oriented, international, crisis-tested, adaptable and responsible company
    Digitalization as an important pillar for the future

On October 12, 1847, the predecessor of today's Siemens AG was founded in a workshop tucked away at the back of a Berlin courtyard. In the course of the 170 years that followed, Siemens constantly reinvented itself, survived crises, and continuously adapted its portfolio – thus proving itself capable of change. Today, Siemens is one of the leading companies in the field of digitalization. Over the decades, certain constants – such as internationality, a quality mindset and customer orientation – have remained guarantors of success. The guiding principle behind all this? "Whatever we do must offer long-term benefits and generate value – for our shareholders, employees and customers as well as our business partners and society," said Siemens AG President and CEO Joe Kaeser.
Press Release | 08. Oct 2017 | Siemens AG
Stress test for the "green wave app"
Now things are getting down to business: following the initial test phase in the fall of 2016, the Siemens SiBike app is going live in Marburg. In the weeks between now and mid-November, dozens of cyclists will be subjecting this system – which gives priority to bicycles in city traffic – to a stress test that is taking place under realistic conditions. Beginning on October 5, 2017, SiBike is launching on a 700-meter stretch of the Erlenring road in Marburg, Germany. Dozens of volunteer "test pilots" will be helping optimize the "green wave" app. And beginning at the end of November, all Marburg residents will be able to download the SiBike app to their smartphones. By the way: Marburg is a trendsetter. Since the project's successful start last year, numerous cities in Europe and the U.S. have already expressed interest in this technology.
Feature | 05. Oct 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Vectron MS certified for the Netherlands

    Vectron certified in a total of 18 countries
    Connection to the entire Rhine-Alpine Corridor

Press Release | 04. Oct 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Soussan and Peter appointed to head Mobility Division
Sabrina Soussan (48) and Michael Peter (51) have been appointed to succeed Jochen Eickholt (55) as head of Siemens' Mobility Division, effective October 1, 2017. Eickholt has been appointed integration manager for the announced merger of Siemens' and Alstom's mobility businesses, effective the same date.
Press Release | 04. Oct 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens sells its stake in Osram
Today, Siemens has decided to sell its shareholding of 18.155 million ordinary shares in Osram Licht AG representing 17.34 % of Osram Licht AG's issued share capital. The net proceeds from the sale will be used for general corporate purposes. Siemens will retain a small number of Osram Licht AG shares which are required to service the remaining Siemens bond plus warrant issue due 2019.
Press Release | 04. Oct 2017 |
Siemens completes sale of shares in Osram
Siemens has completed the sale of 18.155 million ordinary shares in Osram Licht AG, thereby raising gross proceeds of approx. €1.2 billion. The sale followed an accelerated bookbuilt offering to institutional investors only.
Press Release | 04. Oct 2017 |
Siemens protection device offers use of the internet of things via MindSphere of energy

    MindSphere interface offers value added by using recorded data over and above its actual protection and automation functions
    Data is fed to MindSphere applications through a separate communications channel, for example, to be used in asset management 

Today's digital protection devices like those in the Siemens Siprotec 5 series record a multitude of different measured values and network condition quantities. Adding to the devices' actual protection and automation functions, these values can be extremely useful for utilities and grid operators, for example for asset management. That's why Siemens will equip its Siprotec 5 devices with a MindSphere interface, which will be available approximately in the middle of 2018. Through this integrated interface data can be fed, for instance, to a MindSphere application for asset management. Siprotec 5 uses a separate communications path for data read-out and transmission in addition to communications with the power station's automation and control system. There's only one data read access, and it doesn't affect the function of the protection device.
Press Release | 03. Oct 2017 |
Siemens introduces DC transmission system for medium voltage to the market

    Efficient power transmission in the range from 30 to 150 megawatts
    Functions as direct-current transmission line (DC) to control, optimize, and regulate load flows in medium-voltage alternating current grids (AC)
    Based on Siemens high-voltage direct-current transmission (HVDC) technology 

With MVDC PLUS (Medium Voltage Direct Current Power Link Universal System), Siemens is introducing a new direct-current transmission system to the market that will be serve as an efficient transmission route in medium-voltage AC grids from 30 to 150 kilovolts (kV). Siemens has developed the transmission system for grid operators who need to enlarge their infrastructure to handle the increasing volumes of power fed into the distribution system from distributed and renewable energy sources and also keep their network stable. Distances of up to 200 kilometers can be bridged with MVDC PLUS. Siemens offers the medium-voltage DC transmission system as a compact system in three variants: for a transmission capacity of approximately 50, 100, and 150 megawatts (MW) at DC transmission voltages of 20 to 50 kV.
Press Release | 03. Oct 2017 |
Siemens' EnergyIP smart grid applications run on the IoT operating system MindSphere

    Cloud-based digitalization offering for energy suppliers facilitates development and installation of agile, fully integrated applications for the Internet of Things
    Numerous EnergyIP applications gradually available for MindSphere
    Service and applications part of Siemens' cyber security strategy

The further development of Siemens' EnergyIP smart grid applications marks another step forward in the digital transformation of the energy industry: In the future, more and more applications that today run on the EnergyIP smart grid application platform from Siemens will be integrated into MindSphere, the Siemens cloud-based open operating system for the Internet of Things (IoT). With this step, Siemens can provide energy suppliers with open and scalable digitalization applications for improved transparency in energy plants, data analytics, and optimized energy-related business processes. MindSphere for Energy reduces the cost for integrating new equipment and enables new and existing applications to be developed and installed using standardized interfaces on MindSphere. The platform and the applications are a part of the company's cyber security strategy. These solutions are already being implemented in development and production in order to meet current and future data security requirements.
Press Release | 03. Oct 2017 |
European Utility Week 2017 - MindSphere for Energy
Distributed energy systems and digitalization are two trends that reinforce one another and are driving the transformation of the energy world. Siemens is supporting these trends in a variety of ways, including with MindSphere, its cloud-based, open, and scalable operating system for the Internet of Things (IoT). At this year's European Utility Week (EUW), which took place in Amsterdam from October 3 to 5, Siemens presented some of its highlights for this topic. As in past years, Siemens once again invited German and international energy media to a press conference at the trade show. The conference focused on the EnergyIP smart grid application platform whose applications recently began running under MindSphere as well as a new MindSphere application developed by Omnetric, a joint venture of Siemens and Accenture, for an Austrian energy provider. At the conference, Siemens informed industry media about how MindSphere can help utilities and power grid operators monitor their grids, analyze grid data, and optimize grid operation, and also presented a new controllable and adjustable medium-voltage DC transmission system. This system was developed for gird operators who need to enlarge their infrastructure to handle the increasing volumes of power fed into the distribution system from distributed and renewable energy sources and to keep their network stable.
Amsterdam | 02. Oct 2017 - 04. Oct 2017 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Siemens receives power plant order from Pakistan

    Siemens to supply power island with highly-efficient H-class gas turbines
    Around 1.3 gigawatts power generation capacity
    Fast track power generation project to boost capacity in Punjab Province

Siemens has received an order from Pakistan for a complete power island for the new combined cycle Punjab Power Plant Jhang. The order was placed by the China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC). As EPC contractor the Chinese company is building the project for the independent energy provider Punjab Thermal Power (Pvt) Ltd (PTPL). The liquefied natural gas (LNG)-operated plant is being built 250 kilometers southwest of Lahore and will provide a power generating capacity of 1.3 gigawatts.
Press Release | 02. Oct 2017 |
The new 44-megawatt gas turbine for mobile power generation
In many areas of the world, existing power infrastructure is stretched to the limit by growing demand for electricity. Reliable power supply systems are a major enabler of economic development, yet needs are growing at a pace faster than the ability to erect conventional power plants. The task at hand in these regions is to deploy efficient mobile power generating capacity quickly to fuel economic development. In some cases the need is temporary, and after some time the mobile power plant might be relocated to a different location to perform a similar duty. Siemens has now specially developed its SGT-A45 TR gas turbine for this rapidly growing market – a new aero-derivative gas turbine integrated into a mobile unit that delivers an electrical output of up to 44 megawatts, can be installed and commissioned in less than two weeks and begin generating electricity immediately. This light-weight gas turbine offers outstanding power density, high fuel efficiency and good operational flexibility, making it an ideal choice for customers who urgently need power and regions with less developed infrastructures.
Feature | 01. Oct 2017 | Gas and Power
Siemens enhances digital Coriolis flow portfolio for process optimization

    Digitalization of low-flow measurement
    Sensor program expansion with DN100 and DN150
    Transmitter with Modbus and Profibus PA profile 4.0 communication
    Suitable for new applications in oil and gas, marine, and chemical

To extend the numerous process-optimizing advantages of the digital Coriolis flowmeter platform to low-flow applications such as batching, dosing and filling of both liquids and gases, the Sitrans FCT030 and FCT010 digital transmitters can now be paired with the Sitrans F C MASS 2100 and Sitrans FC300 Coriolis sensors for small line sizes from DI 1.5 to DN 15. With this major enhancement to the product line, a broad range of users from chemical to automotive applications can benefit from market-leading mass flow accuracy of 0.1%, density accuracy of 0.5 kg/m3 and 100 Hz signal processing. The high-speed update rate ensures the highest precision for applications such as the filling of beverage bottles.
Press Release | 28. Sep 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens to supply rotating equipment for propane dehydrogenation plant in China
China's largest acrylic producer, Zhejiang Satellite Energy Co., Ltd, recently selected Siemens to provide a reactor effluent compressor train for Phase II of its propane dehydrogenation (PDH) plant in Pinghu City in China's Zhejian province. The dual-casing compressor train, scheduled for installation in late 2018, consists of two Siemens STC-SH single-shaft compressors driven by a Siemens SGT-750 industrial gas turbine. Plant commissioning is scheduled for early 2019.
Press Release | 26. Sep 2017 |
Siemens and Alstom join forces to create a European Champion in Mobility

    Signed Memorandum of Understanding grants exclusivity to combine mobility businesses in a merger of equals
    Listing in France and group headquarters in Paris area; led by Alstom CEO with 50 percent shares of the new entity owned by Siemens
    Business headquarter for Mobility Solutions in Germany and for Rolling Stock in France
    Comprehensive offering and global presence will offer best value to customers all over the world
    Combined company's revenue €15.3 billion, adjusted EBIT of €1.2 billion
    Annual synergies of €470 million expected latest four years after closing

Today, Siemens and Alstom have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to combine Siemens' mobility business including its rail traction drives business, with Alstom. The transaction brings together two innovative players of the railway market with unique customer value and operational potential. The two businesses are largely complementary in terms of activities and geographies. Siemens will receive newly issued shares in the combined company representing 50 percent of Alstom's share capital on a fully diluted basis.
Press Release | 26. Sep 2017 |
EMO 2017: New digital business models of machine manufacturers and live connection of 240 machine tools on MindSphere

    Digitalization allows machine manufacturers to develop new business models
    Openness of MindSphere has an important role to play for machine manufacturers
    Siemens connects 240 machine tools with "Manage MyMachines" on MindSphere across the whole exhibition site

At the EMO 2017, Siemens is demonstrating the various connection and installation options of its high-performance and open cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere for applications in the machine tool sector. The company is connecting over 240 different machine tools from over 140 manufacturers across the whole exhibition site using its "Manage MyMachines" app on MindSphere. In addition to this, machine manufacturers such as Heller are presenting new services and business models based on MindSphere to, for example, increase efficiency and productivity.
Press Release | 22. Sep 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens introduces a new power line carrier system for digital high-voltage substations

    System offers data transmission rates of up to 2.5 megabit per second
    Replaces traditional systems and can be seamless integrated into existing power line carrier infrastructure

Siemens launches PowerLink IP, a new power line carrier (PLC) system for digital high-voltage substations. This brand new PLC system uses the high-voltage lines between the substations as a channel by overlaying a modulated carrier frequency on the frequency of the transmission voltage in the overhead lines. State-of-the-art, digital substations generate ever-increasing volumes of data that are used to ensure reliable network operation. With PowerLink IP, power grid operators can enjoy the benefits of digitalization for Ethernet/IP communication via overhead lines. Siemens provides proven PLC technology for this purpose – technology which meets the demand for more bandwidth and ensures that the constantly growing volumes of data in high-voltage substations can be used for efficient grid operation.
Press Release | 21. Sep 2017 |
Supervisory Board extends appointment of Siemens CFO Thomas
The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has extended the appointment of Ralf Thomas as Chief Financial Officer ahead of schedule. His term of office will now continue until September 2023. Following the early extension of CEO Joe Kaeser's contract in August, this move is a clear signal of the company's commitment to continuity.
Press Release | 21. Sep 2017 | Siemens AG
New switching actuators from Siemens

    Greatly expanded product line of GAMMA instabus switching actuators for lighting and electrical loads
    Numerous control, override and diagnostic functions
    Much shorter installation time, simplified commissioning, lower maintenance costs

The Siemens Building Technologies Division has updated its GAMMA instabus product line with new switching actuators, greatly expanding its range of products for lighting control. The new actuators are available with switching capacities of 6, 10 and 16 or 20 amperes and four, eight and twelve channels each.
Press Release | 21. Sep 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens adds location-based services to its portfolio for digital buildings

    Integration of location data in building systems and processes
    More comfort and safety for building users and operators
    Partnership with indoor positioning expert infsoft

The Siemens Building Technologies Division is adding location-based services to its digital service offering for buildings. These services link existing building infrastructures and processes with location-specific data. This benefits all building users: People working in the building enjoy enhanced comfort. For example, they are now able to use a smartphone app to individually control the room temperature and lighting in their immediate vicinity or find and reserve an available meeting room nearby. Location-based services help visitors find their way around a building more quickly and obtain the information they need. In addition, these services dramatically improve the operational processes in a building, optimizing room utilization, simplifying emergency evacuations and making building maintenance more efficient. Beyond that, it is easier to protect assets against loss or theft, take inventory and locate them at any time. This is important, for instance, to quickly find mobile medical equipment in a hospital.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens and PAS announce global strategic partnership to provide essential industrial control system cybersecurity
Siemens, a global engineering and technology leader, and PAS Global, the leading provider of industrial control system (ICS) cybersecurity solutions, announced an agreement to provide fleet-wide, real time monitoring for control systems. By leveraging the unique capabilities of both companies, this partnership will provide customers with: (1) deep analytics required to identify and inventory proprietary assets; and (2) visibility to detect and respond effectively to attacks across the operating environment.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2017 |
Siemens and Fair Friend Group (FFG) confirm long-term collaboration in Digital Enterprise and automation

    Memorandum of Understanding signed at EMO 2017
    Common understanding of closer, long-term partnership in integrating Siemens technology in FFG machine tools
    Introduction of the Digital Enterprise Suite and the cloud-based IoT operating system MindSphere at FFG
    Collaboration in Product Lifecycle Management (PLM), Manufacturing Operations Management (MOM) and Totally Integrated Automation (TIA)

Siemens and Fair Friend Enterprise Co., Ltd. Taiwan (FFG), which, in addition to its Industrial Equipment and Green Energy Divisions, is one of the world's leading manufacturers of machine tools, now intend to strengthen their long-standing business relationship. The aim of the extended partnership is to consolidate the integration of the Siemens Digital Enterprise Suite across the Taiwanese business and to integrate innovative Siemens digitalization and automation technologies into FFG's machine tools and machine tool technologies.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2017 | Digital Industries
Blue Line in Bangkok to be extended with Siemens technology

    Siemens to deliver 35 metro trains and rail infrastructure
    Blue Line Metro to be extended 28 kilometers
    Contract includes maintenance services for ten years

Bangkok Expressway and Metro Public Company Limited (BEM) and CH. Karnchang Public Company Limited are working with a consortium of Siemens and ST Electronics (Thailand) Limited to deliver rail technology for the extension of Bangkok's Blue Line Metro. The scope of Siemens' delivery includes 35 three-car metro trains, the signaling system, the traction power supply and complete equipment for the depot and workshop. In addition, Siemens will perform maintenance services of the transit system for a period of ten years. Commissioning of the line extension is planned for 2019-2020. When completed, BEM will be the transport operator for this line.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2017 |
Fifth major rail order for Siemens in Bangkok

    Siemens to deliver 35 metro trains and rail infrastructure
    Blue Line Metro to be extended 28 kilometers
    Eickholt: "We have shaped Bangkok's urban transport system"

Bangkok Expressway and Metro Public Company Limited (BEM) and CH. Karnchang Public Company Limited are working with a consortium of Siemens and ST Electronics (Thailand) Limited to deliver rail technology for the extension of Bangkok's Blue Line Metro. The scope of Siemens' delivery includes 35 three-car metro trains, the signaling system, the traction power supply and complete equipment for the depot and workshop. In addition, Siemens will perform maintenance services of the transit system for a period of ten years. Commissioning of the line extension is planned for 2019-2020. When completed, BEM will be the transport operator for this line.
Press Release | 19. Sep 2017 |
SGT-800 industrial gas turbine delivers even more power and higher efficiency
Siemens is now offering its SGT-800 industrial gas turbine with a power output of 57 megawatts (MW) and an electrical efficiency of more than 40% in simple cycle application. In a combined cycle configuration the power output is 163 MW at a net efficiency of more than 58.5%. The company will present this upgrade for the first time at this year's Power-Gen Asia trade show in Bangkok. The SGT-800 is now available with power output from 47.5 MW to 57 MW thanks to this upgrade, which will be offered onto the market in addition to the current ratings.
Press Release | 18. Sep 2017 |
Siemens at the EMO 2017
The EMO Hannover is the world's premier trade fair for the metalworking sector. Some 2,000 exhibitors come to the EMO Hannover to present products and services from across every segment of metalworking technology, from machine tools, precision tooling, and automation components to systems with a customer-oriented focus. A selection of accompanying events and special shows form the framework to the EMO Hannover and supplement the exhibition spectrum.
Hanover | 17. Sep 2017 - 22. Sep 2017 | Digital Industries Save the date
Siemens innovates for a digital China

    Summary
    Summary
    Summary

Siemens China will lead the company's global research in autonomous robotics. As part of Siemens' innovation strategy to master technology fields that are critical for future success. The company announced the move on Siemens Innovation Day China 2017, which was held in Suzhou. A global research community comprising experienced experts from around the world will focus on the research and development of new mechatronics systems, human-robot collaboration and the application of artificial intelligence in robotic controllers. In line with this strategic move, Siemens has also entered into a partnership with Tsinghua University, one of Siemens' Center of Knowledge Interchange universities, to jointly set up a robotics research center in Beijing.
Feature | 17. Sep 2017 | Siemens AG
MRCE orders 30 Vectron locomotives

    10 Vectron MS and 20 Vectron DC
    Option for 20 additional locomotives
    MRCE fleet includes 111 Vectron locomotives

Mitsui Rail Capital Europe (MRCE), a full-service locomotive leasing company, has ordered 30 Vectron locomotives from Siemens. Ten of the units will be delivered as multisystem Vectron MS for cross-border operations in Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland and the Netherlands. Twenty further locomotives will be equipped as direct-current locomotives (Vectron DC) to operate in Italy. Delivery of the locomotives is scheduled to begin from January 2018. The contract with MRCE also includes an option for an additional 20 locomotives.
Press Release | 14. Sep 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens at the New Mobility World 2017

    This year’s booth slogan: "Shaping future mobility systems – from understanding to optimizing"
    Efficient charging with high-power charging station and controller
    Intelligent communication system Sitraffic ESCoS Vehicle-to-X linking vehicles and infrastructure
    Radar technology for intelligent roads, smart parking and networking on freeways

From 14 to 17 September 2017, representatives from the worlds of politics and industry will be meeting at the New Mobility World to shape the future of mobility across industries. The event will be taking place within the context of the IAA 2017. Under the banner "Shaping future mobility systems – from understanding to optimizing," Siemens will be exhibiting at Booth 39 in Hall 3.1 with an array of current applications and solutions surrounding the topics of charging technology for electric vehicles and intelligent communication systems linking vehicles and infrastructure. Siemens offers a wide range of products and solutions that help shape the future of mobility already today.
Press Release | 14. Sep 2017 |
Data encryption secures the digital value chain

    Through its strategic partnership with Identify3D, Siemens is offering new ways of protecting the manufacturing processes
    Data encrypted in NX – decrypted in SINUMERIK 840D sl
    Stringent security solution along the digital value chain
    The new security solution will be presented at the EMO 2017 trade fair in Hannover

Siemens is offering new, comprehensive possibilities for data protection in the field of digitalization when third-party service providers are involved in the manufacturing process. With a view of data security licensing and encryption, the corporation has entered into a strategic partnership with Identify3D (ID3D). ID3D has integrated the solutions for security and traceability of digital production processes into the Sinumerik and PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) portfolio of Siemens. Data encryption, including time stamp, is already included in the 3D CAM (computer aided manufacturing) software NX. Decryption takes place on the SINUMERIK 840D sl. Through the cooperation with Identify3D, Siemens has secured the integrity of all process data along the entire value chain with an end-to-end security solutions. Siemens and Indentify3D will present the software integration at the EMO 2017 in Hannover. With the integration of these new solutions into the Siemens portfolio, customers will be able to protect their intellectual property, have their products produced according to the individually defined parameters, and comprehensively track the produced parts.
Press Release | 14. Sep 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens innovates for a digital China

    Siemens China to lead the company's global R&D in autonomous robotics
    Innovative solutions to help build "digital cities" across the country
    Agreement to create Hong Kong's first smart city digital hub powered by MindSphere
    Open innovation eco-system for China and the world

Siemens China will lead the company's global research in autonomous robotics. As part of Siemens' innovation strategy to master technology fields that are critical for future success, a global research community comprising experienced experts from around the world will focus on the research and development of new mechatronics systems, human-robot collaboration and the application of artificial intelligence in robotic controllers. In line with this strategic move, Siemens has also entered into a partnership with Tsinghua University, one of Siemens' Center of Knowledge Interchange universities, to jointly set up a robotics research center in Beijing.
Press Release | 14. Sep 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens at the New Mobility World 2017
From 14 to 17 September 2017, representatives from the worlds of politics and industry met at the New Mobility World to shape the future of mobility across industries. The event took place within the context of the IAA 2017. Under the banner "Shaping future mobility systems – from understanding to optimizing," Siemens exhibited at Booth 39 in Hall 3.1 with an array of current applications and solutions surrounding the topics of charging technology for electric vehicles and intelligent communication systems linking vehicles and infrastructure. Siemens offers a wide range of products and solutions that help shape the future of mobility already today.
Frankfurt am Main | 13. Sep 2017 - 16. Sep 2017 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries, Siemens Mobility, Portfolio Companies Save the date
New Siemens services digitalize machine tools and optimize production

    Digitalization check: transparency of the digitalization capability of the machine park
    Virtual commissioning for OEM: faster commissioning and shorter time-to-market for machines
    Retrofit services for machine tools: economical retrofit measures instead of new investment

At the EMO 2017 in Hannover, Siemens is exhibiting new and expanded digital and classic Services for the machine tool industry – with new capabilities for identifying and exploiting additional productivity potential for machine tools. Machine tool operating companies use the new Digitalization Check as a Service from the portfolio of Manufacturing IT Services to create transparency of the digitalization capability of the machine park. With Virtual Commissioning as a Service, machine manufacturers (OEMs) use a virtual twin to significantly speed up both commissioning and time-to-market.
Press Release | 13. Sep 2017 | Digital Industries
CNC-integrated robot kinematics optimizes control of robot-aided machining tasks

    Siemens enters into cooperation with Italian robot manufacturer COMAU
    Sinumerik Run MyRobot /DirectControl enables complete integration of robot kinematics into the CNC
    Sinumerik RunMyRobot /DirectControl offers the benefit of a single controller for machine tool and robot
    Increased productivity, flexibility, dynamic response, and precision

Siemens has entered into a cooperative arrangement with the Italian robot manufacturer COMAU and will be unveiling the jointly engineered product Sinumerik Run MyRobot /DirectControl at the EMO 2017 in Hanover. This development enables the robot kinematics to be fully integrated into a CNC system. As a result, the Sinumerik controls the articulated robot arm directly with the basis of complex algorithms without the need for a separate robot controller. The Sinumerik Run MyRobot /DirectControl solution allows the CNC to control both the robot arm drive system andcontains safety functions typically performed by the robot controller. In addition, the robot is programmed solely using Sinumerik.
Press Release | 13. Sep 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens is celebrating the 40th anniversary of its brewing system Braumat

    Kicked off in 1977 with a patent application
    Used in several hundreds of breweries today
    Extended functions enable sustained cost reduction and improve competitiveness 

At this year's Drinktec, "Braumat", the Siemens process automation system for breweries is celebrating a jubilee: It has been on the market for 40 years. Initial automation solutions based on electronic controls came into being since the 1970s. The patent application for the process control system tailored to meet the specific needs of the brewery industry followed in 1977. Ever since, more than 500 breweries worldwide have been using the Braumat to produce their beer in a safe and reliable process, always maintaining a consistently high product quality. On the occasion of the jubilee celebrated at the trade fair, Siemens will be showcasing such extended functions as what is called the Replay Mode. This fully graphical mode analyzes and visualizes past production processes helping breweries to sustainably cut their costs and improve their competitiveness.
Press Release | 12. Sep 2017 |
First use of new Siemens railway transformers in the Rhine valley network of DB Regio

    First application starting 2020 in 24 DB-Regio Mireo trains
    New transformer type Tractronic® Thinity lighter and more efficient than existing models
    Rugged design allows flexible installation

Siemens will use the new transformer type Tractronic® Thinity for the first time in 24 articulated trains based on the Mireo train platform. The railway transformer is a key component since it feeds the train's power supply and thus guarantees interference-free rail traffic. Thanks to the new design, the transformer is considerably lighter and more efficient than existing models with the same rating. It also offers maximum flexibility for all installation situations with its intelligent construction. Starting 2020, the 24 Mireo trains will operate regional rail services (Regionalbahn RB) on the Offenburg – Freiburg – Basel/Neuchâtel (Switzerland) line, and on Sundays in the Kaiserstuhl from Freiburg to Endingen/Breisach. They will cut travel time for this route by 30 minutes.
Press Release | 11. Sep 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens at Drinktec 2017
"Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise for the beverage industry" was the Siemens motto for the Drinktec 2017, the leading international trade fair for the beverage industry. At the 240 square-meter booth in hall A3, Siemens showcased how industrial companies of every size can benefit from the digital transformation – from the digital value chain in the engineering process to the integration of machines into the line.
Munich | 11. Sep 2017 - 15. Sep 2017 | Digital Industries Save the date
Start of training year at Siemens

    1,700 young people begin apprenticeship or work-study programs
    A further 600 apprentices from external partners
    International training program in Berlin again with 31 new participants
    Europeans@Siemens renamed International Tech Apprenticeship@Siemens (ITA@S) 

Around 2,300 young people have begun vocational training this year at Siemens in Germany alone. About 1,700 are being trained for professional careers at the company, while a further 600 are from external partners. As in previous years, around 80 percent will focus on technical fields and IT. Siemens offers apprenticeships in electronics, mechatronics, machining and specialized informatics, for example. Roughly 40 percent of the training positions are in work-study programs, whose participants can earn a bachelor's degree (bachelor of engineering or science) or complete a fully integrated work-study program at Baden-Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University in addition to the usual German Chamber of Industry and Commerce degree.
Press Release | 05. Sep 2017 | Siemens AG
Optimizing offshore production with Siemens Topsides 4.0 digital lifecycle solutions

    Topsides 4.0 offers industry's first comprehensive lifecycle approach to help offshore production transition to a fully digital operation
    Siemens is taking its digitalization knowledge and experience and applying it to the oil and gas production industry
    Designed to reduce project cycle time, minimize unplanned downtime and reduce offshore manning for operations and asset monitoring

Siemens is utilizing its digitalization knowledge and experience and applying it to the oil and gas production industry with its Topsides 4.0 solution. Underpinned by secure communications and centered around the key modules of compression, power generation, power distribution, and automation, Siemens Topsides 4.0 offers a digital lifecycle solution to offshore production facilities.
Press Release | 05. Sep 2017 |
Siemens overhauls 15 converter transformers at Cahora Bassa HVDC link in Mozambique
Siemens is modernizing 15 converter transformers at the Cahora Bassa dam in Mozambique for the operator Hidroeléctrica de Cahora Bassa (HCB). The transformers form part of the HVDC transmission link built in the 1970s to transmit electrical power from the hydropower plant over a distance of 1,450 kilometers. The order volume is about €26 million, and the project as scheduled by Siemens will take three years.
Press Release | 04. Sep 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Successful test of island grid as milestone for an energy transition project
The demands on power grids are growing continuously as the portion of renewables-based and distributed energy systems is increasing. Siemens and its project partners have been decoupled the local power grid in Wildpoldsried from the main power grid. For the small community this is a milestone, for the energy transition in Germany and the ambitions worldwide to decarbonize the energy system the successful demonstration sets an exclamation mark.
Wildpoldsried | 31. Aug 2017 - 31. Aug 2017 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Independent power grid as a milestone for an energy transition project

    Siemens successfully demonstrates with project partners first operation of an islanded grid using only renewable power
    Uninterruptible, stable grid operation possible thanks to a microgrid
    Electricity pioneers in Wildpoldsried, Allgäu, Germany
    Regional insights will have a global impact

For the first time, a portion of the low-voltage network has been decoupled from the main power grid. In the community of Wildpoldsried in the Allgäu region of Germany it was possible to provide uninterrupted and stable operation of the island grid. Siemens and its project partners implemented a regional, self-contained and intelligent power distribution grid there, a microgrid. As the share of distributed, renewable power generation units, such as photovoltaic or biogas systems continues to increase in the energy mix, local island grids will make a vital contribution in the future to maintaining a high degree of reliable power supply. These microgrids can also be used in the event of faults, such as those caused by storms, flooding or blackouts. Wildpoldsried serves as the model community in the transformation to power supply supported by prosumers, i.e., producers and consumers of electricity.
Press Release | 30. Aug 2017 |
Siemens to acquire TASS International, adding automated driving solutions to portfolio

    Global provider of simulation software, and engineering and test services to further strengthen Siemens' PLM Software automotive offering
    Solutions aimed primarily at autonomous driving, integrated safety, advanced driver assistance systems, and tyre modeling
    Combined offering provides unique fully integrated solution to frontload the verification and validation of automated driving systems

Siemens will acquire TASS International, a global provider of simulation software, plus engineering and test services aimed primarily at the automotive industry, and focused on autonomous driving, integrated safety, advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS), and tyre modeling. Based in Helmond, Netherlands, TASS International has developed a rich family of solutions that will further strengthen Siemens' product lifecycle management (PLM) software portfolio, and add to its position as the leading supplier of systems-driven product development offerings for the global automotive industry.
Press Release | 30. Aug 2017 |
Siemens and ISA form global partnership to foster awareness of industrial cybersecurity

    Partnership addresses changing security landscape
    Joint security expertise for production IT
    Strengthen awareness of global standards

As threats to automation equipment are always changing and evolving, so too is the protection concepts for industrial plants. To address this challenging landscape, Siemens and the International Society of Automation (ISA) have entered a global partnership to foster the awareness for industrial security needs and global standards.
Press Release | 30. Aug 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens to equip Chinese aluminum factories with drive technology

    Medium and low voltage drives for rolling mills
    The value of the order is in the low tens of millions of euros
    Drive systems to safeguard productivity
    Installation by order of the plant constructor and machine manufacturer SMS China

Siemens is to equip several Chinese aluminum factories with medium and low voltage drives. The value of the order is in the low tens of millions of euros. Commissioning will be completed in several stages between November 2018 and April 2019. The objective is to safeguard the productivity in the rolling mills with powerful, reliable drive systems.
Press Release | 23. Aug 2017 | Digital Industries
Optimizing motion control software before the machine is commissioned

    New software version 5.1 for the high-end Simotion motion control system
    Simosim for simulating the user program in a virtual test environment – without connected hardware
    New elements for the object-oriented programming of modular machine concepts

Siemens has released the new software version 5.1 for the high-end Simotion motion control system including a facility for simulating user programs. With the Simosim simulation integrated into the engineering, users can now test their software without connecting any hardware. Program parts are optimized at an early stage of the development phase, which shortens commissioning times later on. The functions of the object-oriented programming (OOP) have been expanded in software version 5.1 to make the creation of software more flexible. The new, highly modular Simotion software simplifies the implementation of motion control applications ahead of machine commissioning – in favor of a shorter time-to-market.
Press Release | 22. Aug 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens exhibits digitalization and engineering efficiency at Husum Wind 2017

    "Creating the most from wind – discover the value of digitalization" the Siemens slogan on its booth at Husum Wind 2017
    Digitalization and engineering efficiency in focus
    New wind converter portfolio, specifically for wind turbines up to ten megawatts

Under the slogan "Creating the most from wind – discover the value of digitalization", digitalization and engineering efficiency are main themes of this year's Siemens presentation at Husum Wind. The digitalization focuses on the Simatic WinCC Open Architecture Scada System, the cloud-based MindSphere open IoT operating system, and industrial communication: for efficient storage and analysis of large quantities of data, from condition monitoring to the operational optimization of wind energy plants. The company is exhibiting a wide range of tools for engineering efficiency, for example: libraries for controlling a wide range of turbine types, simulation tools for creating prototypes and models, planning tools with extensive CAx data, and engineering tools for the efficient automation of wind turbines. The focus on engineering efficiency also includes a busway system for safe, efficient power transmission, compact, gas-insulated medium voltage switchgear, components and solutions for the pitch and yaw system, and a new series of compact wind converters, specifically for wind turbines up to ten megawatts.
Press Release | 21. Aug 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens awarded expanded service agreement to operate power plant in Iraq
Demonstrating the company's commitment to supporting Iraq's power sector, Siemens has expanded an existing service agreement with KAR Group in Iraq to provide comprehensive operations and maintenance (O&M) for two newly added SSC5-2000E power plant units at the Khormala plant in the Kurdistan region.The 930-megawatt (MW) natural gas-fired power plant meets nearly 30 percent of the power demand targeted by the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), supplying more than four million Iraqi people with reliable electricity. The extension of the service agreement is set to improve operational flexibility, availability, and performance of gas turbines for the next 15 years.The agreement between Siemens and KAR Group aligns with Iraqi energy production goals. According to the Mena Power Report 2017, the current power demand in Iraq stands at 21GW and is growing faster than supply. The Kurdistan Regional Government plans to increase capacity by building new power plants and increasing the efficiency of existing facilities."With more than 20 years of experience in O&M of power plants, we currently manage approximately 2,800 MW across the Middle East and North Africa region and over 16,000 MW globally," said Gianluigi Di Giovanni, Senior Executive Vice President of Siemens Power Generation Services in the Middle East. "Our global resources and fleet expertise enable us to provide complete plant services and management. The plant is truly a landmark project, supporting the development goals of the Kurdistan region. That's why we are proud to expand our collaboration with KAR Group to deliver reliable and stable electricity supply to people's homes."The Khormala multi-year agreement with Siemens covers the operation and maintenance of six SGT5-2000E gas turbines, six SGen5-100A generators along with the associated auxiliary and ancillary systems. It also includes the implementation of Siemens Power Diagnostics®, which is part of the company's "Digital Services for Energy" portfolio, to improve asset visibility, reliability and availability.Siemens data-driven services enable valuable data from different assets to be analyzed. From there, data is transformed into actionable insights—such as diagnostics, troubleshooting and condition forecasting—that can help improve plant reliability and reduce downtime. In addition, the data processed by Siemens Power Diagnostics® can help balance maintenance costs, improve inspection intervals and provide invaluable insights into operational risks.Siemens has managed the operation and maintenance of Khormala since 2013 under a multi-year services agreement. Currently, the company has more than 40 personnel on-site managing the power plant on behalf of KAR Group.
Feature | 21. Aug 2017 | Gas and Power
Innovative automation and technology portfolio for higher machine tool productivity

    New Sinumerik software 4.8 release increases milling productivity
    New Sinumerik operating concepts adapt to customer-specific needs
    Engineering up to 50 percent faster with Safety Integrated plus

Siemens will be exhibiting at the EMO Hannover 2017 with an array of new hardware and software solutions for its integrated Sinumerik portfolio. The spectrum on offer comprises integrated industrial software and automation technology designed to enable machine tool manufacturers to leverage the full productivity potential of the digital factory.
Press Release | 20. Aug 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens advances the digitalization of the real estate industry

    Digitalization increases the value and competitiveness of buildings
    Siemens solutions leverage the improvement potential
    Optimal use of building data creates perfect places

At this year's Expo Real in Munich, Siemens will present solutions and services for the real estate industry under the motto "#CreatingPerfectPlaces." Combining the latest building technology with advanced analytics and digital services opens up a new dimension of building performance. Used consistently, the capabilities offered by digitalization meet all the requirements for sustainable, energy efficient, safe and comfortable buildings. This results in perfect places which increase the value and competitiveness of properties.
Press Release | 17. Aug 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Dresser-Rand to supply equipment for CNOOC Limited’s offshore projects in China
The Dresser-Rand business, part of Siemens Power and Gas, was awarded two orders to supply power generation equipment for two projects for CNOOC Limited (China National Offshore Oil Corporation Limited). CNOOC Limited is the client for the Penglai 19-3 oil field project and Harbin Guanghan Gas Turbine Co., Ltd (HGGT) is the client for the Dongfang 13-2 gas field development project.
Press Release | 16. Aug 2017 |
Siemens builds eHighway in Germany

    First infrastructure for electric trucks on a German autobahn
    Sustainable freight transport by cutting energy consumption in half
    Commissioning at end of 2018

Siemens has been commissioned by the German state of Hesse to build an overhead contact line for electrified freight transport on a ten-kilometer stretch of autobahn. The line will supply electricity for the electric drive of a hybrid truck. Siemens originally presented its innovative "eHighway" concept in 2012. The system will be installed on the A5 federal autobahn between the Zeppelinheim/Cargo City Süd interchange at the Frankfurt Airport and the Darmstadt/Weiterstadt interchange.
Press Release | 10. Aug 2017 | Digital Industries
Eni Norge to reinforce Siemens Subsea Power Grid JIP
The energy company Eni Norge, a subsidiary of Eni S.p.A. has joined the Siemens Subsea Power Grid Joint Industry Program (JIP). Siemens Subsea is developing a complete subsea power network with a group of partners, led by Chevron and including Statoil, Exxon and Petrobras, as part of a Joint Industry Program (JIP). The JIP is one of the main initiatives in the offshore oil and gas industry for advancing large scale subsea processing.
Press Release | 08. Aug 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens wins order from DB Regio for 57 multiple-unit regional trains

    DB Regio orders 57 articulated trains based on the new Mireo platform
    Service in network of Rhine-Neckar S-Bahn
    Staged commissioning beginning in December 2020

DB Regio AG has ordered 57 three-car Mireo trainsets. Following the product's launch in the summer of 2016, this is the second order for Siemens' new regional and commuter train platform. The trains will be built at the company's factory in Krefeld, Germany. Commissioning will follow in two stages: Service on routes in the states of Baden-Württemberg and southern Hesse will begin in December 2020, while service on the Mannheim – Mainz route largely in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate will begin operation in December 2021.
Press Release | 07. Aug 2017 | Siemens Mobility
57 multiple-unit regional trains from Siemens for Deutsche Bahn

    DB Regio orders 57 articulated trains based on the new Mireo platform
    Service in network of Rhine-Neckar S-Bahn
    Staged commissioning beginning in December 2020

Siemens will deliver 57 Mireo trainsets to DB Regio AG, the local transport arm of Deutsche Bahn. Following the product's launch in the summer of 2016, this is the second order for Siemens' new regional and commuter train platform. The Mireos will serve the Rhine-Neckar S-Bahn (regional suburban rail network). The trains will be built at the company's factory in Krefeld, Germany.
Press Release | 07. Aug 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens announces technology push for higher power plant efficiency

    Testing and validation of advanced HL-class technology under real conditions at customer site
    New efficient technologies to be rolled out subsequently to existing gas turbine portfolio
    Designed to plug in to Siemens suite of digital products – running on MindSphere 

Siemens is paving the way for the next level of efficiency with the development of its HL-class. In June 2017, Siemens announced the company will validate the technologies of its HL-class at Duke Energy's Lincoln County site in North Carolina. Siemens is developing this class in an evolutionary development step derived from its proven SGT-8000H technology. The advanced Siemens HL-class gas turbines combine a series of new but already tested technologies and design features with the best of past experience – resulting in a technology carrier to the next level of efficiency and performance. The HL-class is clearing the way to efficiency levels beyond 63 percent with a mid-term goal to reach 65 percent.
Press Release | 07. Aug 2017 |
Siemens signs framework contract for 100 locomotives with Deutsche Bahn

    First call for 60 Vectron multisystem locomotives
    Delivery beginning at end of 2017

Siemens and DB Cargo AG have signed a framework agreement for the delivery of 100 locomotives. At the closing of the contract, the freight transport arm of Deutsche Bahn called up 60 Vectron multisystem locomotives. The locomotives will serve on the Rhine-Alpine-Corridor (DACHINL: Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and the Netherlands). Delivery of the vehicles will begin at the end of 2017. They will be built in the Siemens plant in Munich-Allach, Germany. Siemens recently sold its 500th electric Vectron locomotive.
Press Release | 04. Aug 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens signs framework contract for 100 locomotives with Deutsche Bahn

    First call for 60 Vectron multisystem locomotives
    Delivery beginning at end of 2017

Siemens and DB Cargo AG have signed a framework agreement for the delivery of 100 locomotives. At the closing of the contract, the freight transport arm of Deutsche Bahn called up 60 Vectron multisystem locomotives. The locomotives will serve on the Rhine-Alpine-Corridor (DACHINL: Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and the Netherlands). Delivery of the vehicles will begin at the end of 2017. The locomotives will also operate in Belgium beginning in 2020. The locomotives will have a maximum output of 6.4 MW and a top speed of 160 km/h, and will be equipped with the European Train Control System (ETCS). They will be built in the Siemens plant in Munich-Allach, Germany.
Press Release | 04. Aug 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens extends appointment of CEO Joe Kaeser

    Supervisory Board decides to extend Kaeser's appointment until 2021
    Following successful implementation of Vision 2020, focus on next steps 

The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has extended Joe Kaeser's appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer ahead of schedule. His term of office will now extend until the Annual Shareholders' Meeting in 2021. This move is intended to ensure the continuity and stability needed for sustainable and successful implementation of the company's Vision 2020 strategy program. "Over the past few years, Mr. Kaeser has driven Siemens' realignment with great dedication and entrepreneurial spirit," said Supervisory Board Chairman Gerhard Cromme. "He's not only a guarantor of success, but also of stability in increasingly turbulent times. From the perspective of the Supervisory Board, it's all the more gratifying that we'll be continuing the extremely successful collaboration with Mr. Kaeser, which is based on the highest levels of trust."
Press Release | 03. Aug 2017 | Siemens AG
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q3 FY 2017: Fully on track for another strong year

    Revenue rose 8% compared to Q3 FY 2016, to €21.4 billion, including a strong performance by short-cycle businesses
    Orders came in 6% lower, at €19.8 billion, due to sharply lower volume from large orders at Power and Gas and at Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, the business resulting from the merger of Siemens' wind power business with Gamesa Corporación Tecnológica S.A. (Gamesa) beginning with Q3 FY 2017; the book-to-bill ratio for Siemens overall was 0.93
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue rose 3% and orders were 9% lower
    Profit Industrial Business rose 3% to €2.3 billion; as expected, negative merger and acquisition effects related to Gamesa and Mentor Graphics Corporation (Mentor Graphics) reduced Industrial Business profit margin to 10.4%
    Net income rose 7%, to €1.5 billion; basic earnings per share (EPS) of €1.74, up from €1.64 in Q3 FY 2016 despite negative merger and acquisition effects

"Our global team delivered a solid quarter with revenue up 8% and net income growing by 7%. Our digital enterprise business impressively underscored its leading position in the market. We are fully on track with Vision 2020 and for another strong year."
Press Release | 03. Aug 2017 | Siemens AG
Third Quarter Results FY 2017
We released our third quarter results for fiscal year 2017 on August 3, 2017. The Conference Call for journalists and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
Munich | 02. Aug 2017 - 02. Aug 2017 | Siemens AG Save the date
Effective plant asset management – new functionalities for smart field devices

    New version of Simatic PDM (Process Device Manager) Maintenance Station V2.0
    Further development based on Namur recommendations NE 105, NE 107 and NE 129
    Data collector for cyclic transfer of status data to cloud based systems
    Use of existing Simatic automation system communication structure
    Application independently of the automation and control system used 

With its Simatic PDM Maintenance Station V2.0, Siemens is providing the ideal solution for efficient monitoring of intelligent field device statuses independently of the automation and control system used. Their integration is based on DD (Device Description)/EDD (Electronic Device Description) technology. Diagnostic, parameterization and status data from the field devices is read out cyclically and depicted in a clearly arranged format. The collected data can also be transferred using an export function for further processing in enterprise asset management or cloud-based condition monitoring systems. Version 2.0 has been further developed to comply with Namur recommendations NE 105, NE 107 and NE 129.
Press Release | 02. Aug 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens demonstrates concrete potential of digitalization for the machine tool world

    Trade fair slogan "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing"
    Innovative digitalization and automation portfolio for the Digital Enterprise
    Integrated end-to-end ecosystem comprising digital platforms and over 40 applications

Digitalization is set to be the defining theme once again this year at the EMO in Hanover, the world's biggest fair for the machine tool industry. Under the banner "Digitalization in Machine Tool Manufacturing", Siemens will be demonstrating how machine tool users and manufacturers can benefit from digitalization with a presentation stretching over an area of around 1,200 square meters in Hall 25. Visitors to the booth can find out here how Siemens is driving forward digitalization in the machine tool industry from its leading position in the field. The Siemens trade fair presentation will focus on the company's extensive, integrated end-to-end digitalization portfolio. With this unique offering, the technology company will be showcasing ways in which machine tool manufacturers can significantly boost their production flexibility and efficiency, drastically reduce their engineering input and time to market, as well as consolidating and expanding their competitive standing in the global marketplace by digitalizing their operations.
Press Release | 25. Jul 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens networks locomotives of Deutsche Bahn

    Upgrade of electric locomotives to DB "TechLOKs"
    Joint development of data analytics models
    Increase economic efficiency and availability of the locomotive fleet

DB Cargo AG has commissioned Siemens to equip its locomotive fleet for condition-based, predictive maintenance. The upgrade applies to Siemens locomotives of the 152 Series Eurosprinter ES64F and locomotives of the 170 and 191 Series, both Vectron types. For the 152 Series locomotives, Siemens will retrofit the necessary telemetric systems and network all locomotives with the "TechLOK" system used by DB Cargo. The contract has a term of six years.
Press Release | 24. Jul 2017 |
Siemens demonstrates digital and integrated value chain for the beverage industry

    Trade fair slogan "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise for the beverage industry"
    Digitalization enhances flexibility, efficiency and quality
    "Digital twin" boosts innovation rate and productivity
    MindSphere applications capture and analyze KPIs in the manufacturing and process sector

The Siemens slogan for this year's Drinktec, the world's leading trade fair for the beverage industry, exhorts visitors to "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise for the beverage industry". On its booth encompassing around 240 square meters, Siemens will be demonstrating how industrial enterprises of all sizes can benefit from the digital revolution – from the digital value chain in the engineering process through to the in-line integration of machines.
Press Release | 20. Jul 2017 |
Siemens expands damper actuator family

    New spring-return actuators with 4 Nm torque
    New damper actuators with 2 Nm torque
    Easy installation and extreme flexibility

The Siemens Building Technologies Division is expanding its range of OpenAir damper actuators for heating, ventilation and air conditioning applications with spring-return models with 4 Nm of torque. At the same time, new features are being added to conventional damper actuators with 2 Nm of torque.
Press Release | 18. Jul 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens receives major order from TenneT for DolWin6 offshore grid connection

    Siemens will supply the technology for direct-current transmission
    Dragados partner is responsible for building and installing the offshore platform
    Six DC grid connections of the German North Sea were equipped by Siemens 

Siemens has received another order from the German-Dutch grid operator, TenneT TSO, for a grid connection for offshore wind power plants in the German waters of the North Sea. The company will supply the entire technology for efficient direct-current transmission for the "DolWin6" grid connection. The Spanish partner, Dragados Offshore S.A., is a leading general contractor in the energy sector and is responsible for construction and offshore installation of the associated platform. The French supplier Nexans will supply the direct-current cables. TenneT tendered the supply and laying of the cables separately, and these services are therefore not part of Siemens' scope of supply. The order placed with Siemens is valued in high three-digit millions euros range. After it is completed, DolWin6 will be able to transmit enough electricity to supply just under one million German homes. Commercial commissioning is scheduled for 2023.
Press Release | 17. Jul 2017 |
Siemens and AES join forces to create Fluence, a new global energy storage technology company
Siemens and The AES Corporation announced on July 11, 2017 their agreement to form a new global energy storage technology and services company under the name Fluence. The joint venture will deliver the Advancion and Siestorage energy storage platforms and will continue to develop new storage solutions and services. Fluence will empower customers around the world to better navigate the fragmented but rapidly growing energy storage sector and meet their pressing needs for scalable, flexible, and cost-competitive energy storage solutions. Its global headquarters will be located in the Washington, DC area with additional offices located in Erlangen, Germany and other cities worldwide. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2017, subject to regulatory and other approvals.
Feature | 14. Jul 2017 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure
Siemens receives 2017 European Energy Service Award

    Energy Performance Contracting (EPC) project at Hvidovre Hospital in Denmark recognized
    Guaranteed energy savings of up to 33 percent per year
    Comprehensive energy savings package through optimization of technical plants and expansion of renewable energy systems

The Siemens Building Technologies Division has won a 2017 European Energy Service Award (EESA) in the category "Best European Energy Service Project" for its energy performance contracting (EPC) project at Hvidovre Hospital, the largest EPC project in Denmark to date. The project will allow the 245,000 m² hospital near Copenhagen to reduce its heat consumption by 41 percent and its electricity consumption by 23 percent. The total energy consumption will be cut by approximately one third.
Press Release | 13. Jul 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
New Siemens technology to enhance mobile signal reception in the Rhein-Ruhr Express

    Special coating on windowpanes significantly improves reception
    Rhein-Ruhr Express first train worldwide with the new technology
    Maintenance-free, cost-effective solution

The Rhein-Ruhr Express (RRX), a train for Germany's Rhine-Ruhr metropolitan region, will be the world's first train in series production to feature a new radio-frequency windowpane solution from Siemens that massively improves mobile phone reception in trains. The new windows on the RRX will allow radio waves to pass through up to 500 times more easily than is the case with conventional thermal insulation glazing. As a result, passengers will be able, for the first time, to surf the Internet and make telephone calls freely without the need for special cellular-signal amplifiers (in-train repeaters). Train operators will also profit from the new technology: in new vehicles, the windowpane solution is significantly more cost-effective than installing in-train repeaters.
Press Release | 12. Jul 2017 | Siemens AG
Prototype of the Rhine-Ruhr Express presented

    Siemens starts Rhine-Ruhr Express test program
    Digitized train technology
    Service planned beginning in late 2018

Siemens presented the first prototype of the Rhine-Ruhr Express (RRX) today. The testing of the multiple-unit electric train will now begin at the Siemens Test and Validation Center (PCW) in Wegberg-Wildenrath. All seven pre-series trains will be commissioned at the PCW and complete extensive tests in the coming months before undertaking their first test runs in the public railway network. The RRX is scheduled to enter service in the greater Rhine-Ruhr region at the end of 2018.
Press Release | 11. Jul 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens partners with Singapore to establish its first fully-integrated Digitalization Hub

    Powered by MindSphere – Siemens' cloud-based open IoT operating system, the Hub will drive digitalization in the country
    Team of up to 300 digitalization experts by 2022
    Development of new digital applications for companies in Southeast Asia, three cooperation agreements signed today

To address the substantial opportunities in urbanization and industrialization that are rapidly arising in Asia, Siemens will be setting up a Digitalization Hub in Singapore. At this Hub, Siemens will develop innovations for the Internet of Things (IoT) and Industrie 4.0 in collaboration with its customers in Southeast Asia. Supported by the Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB), the Hub will also complements the county's efforts to become a Smart Nation, because Siemens will be using its IoT operating system MindSphere - to drive digitalization in Singapore.
Press Release | 11. Jul 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens launches digitalization hub in Singapore
Singapore and Siemens aim to join forces in a drive to make the Southeast Asian city-state a "smart nation." As a result, Singapore will be the first country in the world to pilote MindSphere – Siemens' open, cloud-based operating system for the Internet of Things – to digitalize its infrastructure as much as possible. Siemens is supporting this master plan by setting up a digitalization hub. The hub was inaugurated on July 11, 2017 in parallel events in Singapore and at Siemens' headquarters in Munich: Armin Bruck, CEO of Siemens Singapore, opened the hub in Singapore while Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG, signed a symbolic plaque in Munich. At the Digitalization Hub, Siemens will develop and offer new digital applications.
Feature | 11. Jul 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens and AES join forces to create Fluence, a new global energy storage technology company

    Fluence combines the extensive technology expertise, unique energy storage market experience, and global reach of Siemens and AES to offer proven and cost-competitive energy storage systems for a rapidly transforming sector.
    Fluence will deliver the Advancion and Siestorage energy storage platforms and will continue to develop new storage solutions and services, reaching customers in over 160 countries.
    The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2017 following regulatory approvals.

Siemens AG ("Siemens") and The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES, "AES") announced today their agreement to form a new global energy storage technology and services company under the name Fluence. The joint venture will bring together AES' ten years of industry-defining experience deploying energy storage in seven countries with over a century of Siemens' energy technology leadership and its global sales presence in more than 160 countries. Combining the proven AES Advancion and Siemens Siestorage energy storage platforms with expanded services, Fluence will offer customers a wider variety of options to meet the challenges of a rapidly transforming energy landscape. The company will empower customers around the world to better navigate the fragmented but rapidly growing energy storage sector and meet their pressing needs for scalable, flexible, and cost-competitive energy storage solutions.
Press Release | 10. Jul 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
Siemens and FC Bayern Munich forge global partnership
Engineering excellence meets athletic excellence: Beginning with the start of the new 2017/2018 sports season and continuing for a period of three years, Siemens will be an official "Performance Partner" for FC Bayern Munich and FC Bayern Basketball. With forward-looking solutions and digital products, Siemens will not only be supporting FC Bayern Munich in the area of sports, but also in the area of technology. As part of this partnership, the use of Siemens technology is to be further increased – for example at the Allianz Arena and the Audi Dome, in administrative buildings and at the training facilities on Säbener Street in Munich. In addition, software- und cloud-based services for FC Bayern Munich in the areas of power engineering, building technology and safety-and-security technology, intelligent mobility solutions for local public transportation and traffic management systems play a key role in the cooperation agreement. In this way, Siemens will be bringing to play its full range of expertise and innovative power for FC Bayern and its fans along the entire value chain of electrification, automation and digitalization.
Feature | 06. Jul 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens partners with China on digitalization

    Siemens cooperates with Chinese government in digital manufacturing, innovation and technology applications
    Memorandum of Understanding signed in presence of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Chinese President Xi Jinping
    Strategic partnership with Chinese enterprises in industrial Internet of Things (IoT) and intelligent manufacturing 

Siemens has entered into agreements with the Chinese government and Chinese enterprises to continue joint activities for exploring the potential of digitalization and for supporting measures to upgrade and transform China's industrial sector. The documents were signed today in Berlin in the presence of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Press Release | 05. Jul 2017 | Siemens AG
Avenio tram design for Doha honored with the "Red Dot" Award

    "Red Dot" Award in the category "Product Design"
    Jury convinced by high quality of design
    Avenio tram completely catenary-free

The Siemens Avenio tram for Doha, in the Emirate of Qatar, has been honored with the prestigious "Red Dot" Award for Product Design 2017. The tram's minimalistic and timeless design complements its surroundings and reflects the modern architecture of Doha's Education City Campus. Clean lines, generous white surfaces and darkened windows characterize the tram's exterior. Special shading on the roof and tinted insulated glass ensure passenger comfort even in extreme outdoor temperatures. The interior's bright and airy ambiance, subtly styled seat upholstery and elegantly designed grab poles underscore the tram's modern character. The Avenio's design was created in cooperation with the "Yellow Window" design agency.
Press Release | 04. Jul 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens to supply power train for Sabiya power plant in Kuwait

    Fourth order for power plant equipment in four years from Kuwait
    Long-term service agreement for more than eight years 

Siemens has won an order to supply the key power generation equipment for the Sabiya Extension 3 combined cycle power plant in Kuwait. The contract was awarded by the plant owner, the Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW), to Alghanim International for execution of engineering, procurement and construction (EPC). The power train will provide an electrical capacity of about 900 megawatts (MW). A long-term service agreement with Alghanim International is also included to help ensure the reliability, availability, and performance of the main components. The customer, Kuwaiti EPC and O&M contractor Alghanim International, is responsible for constructing the entire plant, establishing the grid connection, and operating and maintaining it. The country will be able to cover its steadily growing energy demand with the Sabiya Extension 3 plant. The plant will start simple cycle operation in winter of 2019. Commissioning of the combined cycle operation is scheduled for the end of 2020.
Press Release | 04. Jul 2017 |
New corporate Headquarters, Munich
After a six-year project period, including three years of construction work, the new Siemens headquarters building in Munich opened its doors on June 24, 2016. With about 45,000 square meters of aboveground floor space, the company has created a modern, inspiring work environment for about 1,200 employees. Environmental friendliness and energy efficiency play a key role here: the new building meets the world's highest sustainability standards. In 2010, Siemens and the city of Munich officially announced the launch of this innovative construction project and organized an architectural competition. The winning design, which was developed by the Danish architectural firm Henning Larsen Architects, skillfully combined tradition with the future. The historic Ludwig Ferdinand Palais and its adjacent building were renovated and seamlessly integrated into the new cutting-edge headquarters. Ever since the building opened in the summer of 2016, its ground floor and inner courtyards – with trees, a café, a restaurant and a water feature – have been publicly accessible. The new Siemens passageway creates a pedestrian corridor enabling Munich residents and visitors to stroll between the Bavarian capital's historic center and its museum district. The project was implemented by Siemens Real Estate, which is a leading corporate real estate company and is responsible for all of Siemens' real estate activities.
Feature | 04. Jul 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens at the Zellcheming-Expo 2017
From July 4 to 6, 2017, all the paper industry met in Frankfurt am Main at the Zellcheming-Expo, Europe's leading trade fair for the pulp and paper industry and its suppliers. Under the banner "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise - with Sipaper", Siemens showcased its latest applications and solutions from the Sipaper portfolio at booth D50 in Hall 4.1.
Frankfurt am Main | 04. Jul 2017 - 06. Jul 2017 | Portfolio Companies Save the date
Ship ahoy!
For many holiday-makers, a cruise on board a luxury liner is right up at the top of their wish list. No wonder that the leisure cruising market has been booming for many years. In the past year alone, more than 20 million cruise passengers embarked in locations around the world – and the trend is upwards. This year saw the launch of the Aida shipping company's ninth ship fitted out with automation technology from Siemens.
Feature | 04. Jul 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens turns Dubai Opera into a smart concert space

    Digital building technology from Siemens optimizes the efficiency and security of Dubai Opera
    Flexible usage of the architectural landmark as an opera house, concert venue or banquet hall
    Desigo CC building management platform controls all systems through a fully customized 3D user interface

Dubai Opera is one of the world's smartest and most energy-efficient performance spaces thanks to an extremely powerful building management platform from Siemens. The dhow-shaped building is a multi-format performing arts center which accommodates up to 2,000 spectators.
Press Release | 03. Jul 2017 | Smart Infrastructure
First use in the high-voltage grid: SF6-free circuit breaker from Siemens for Netze BW
Siemens has received an order from the distribution grid operator Netze BW GmbH to modernize and expand its 110-kV transformer substation in Nördlingen. Siemens will install its new 3AV1 outdoor circuit breaker with vacuum-interruption technology and a combined voltage and current converter, including clean-air insulation, in a 110-kV high-voltage grid for the first time. The switchgear thus requires no SF6 insulating gas. The order also includes retrofitting and expanding the existing air-insulated switchgear, including protection and control systems and work on cables and overhead lines. The new equipment is expected to be commissioned by the middle of 2018.
Press Release | 03. Jul 2017 |
New Aida cruise ship launched with Siemens automation technology on board

    Control system enhances on-board safety and cost-effectiveness
    Ninth Aida ship to be equipped with Siemens technology

Aida Perla, the twelfth cruise liner of the Aida fleet, was christened on June 30, 2017 in the Spanish resort of Palma de Mallorca. Siemens equipped the new flagship with automation technology designed to control and monitor key on-board functions. Aida Perla is capable of accommodating a total of 3,300 passengers in around 1,600 cabins. The new passenger vessel is already the ninth Aida ship to be equipped with Siemens technology.
Press Release | 03. Jul 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Vietnamese energy company EVN open a new main control center for 21 provinces
In June 2017, Siemens and the state-run energy company, Electricity of Vietnam Southern Power Corporation (EVN SPC), opened a new main control center in Ho Chi Minh City. The Vietnamese energy provider had Siemens develop, design and build the facilities in the main control center in order to be able to remotely monitor and control the medium- and low-voltage grids in 21 provinces in the southern part of the country. This project will significantly improve the availability and efficiency of the distribution grids in this region and reduce power outages, thus contributing to the economic development.
Press Release | 30. Jun 2017 |
Changes at Siemens' Press Office

    Robin Zimmermann to head global media relations, effective August 1, 2017
    Philipp Encz and Alexander Becker with new roles in Munich and Washington, D.C.
    Dennis Hofmann and Oliver Santen to leave the company 

Robin Zimmermann (46) has been appointed to head Siemens' global Media Relations Department, effective August 1, 2017. Dennis Hofmann (44), currently responsible for internal and external corporate communications, is leaving his position, effective August 1, 2017. He will continue to serve the company in an advisory capacity for a transitional period.
Press Release | 30. Jun 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens Mechanical Drives Unit to become Flender GmbH on October 1

    Transformation to a stand-alone company under the Siemens umbrella advancing on schedule
    Affiliation also visible in the name: Flender GmbH, a Siemens Company
    Important step in enhancing market lead
    Wholly-owned subsidiary of Siemens AG, headquartered in Bocholt 

Starting October 1, 2017, the Siemens Mechanical Drives unit (MD) will be operating in the market as Flender GmbH, a Siemens Company. Branches will also take on the new name worldwide. Earlier this year, Siemens had announced that it would be running the unit as a stand-alone company under the Siemens umbrella, to expand its leeway for action and provide a sharper, business-specific focus. The new setup is to be completed worldwide by mid-2018.
Press Release | 29. Jun 2017 |
New tram fleet for Bremen comes from Siemens

    Bremer Straßenbahn AG orders 67 Avenio trams
    Option for up to 17 additional trams
    Commissioning to begin in spring 2019 

The German operator Bremer Straßenbahn AG (BSAG) has ordered a new tram fleet for the Free Hanseatic City. The order is for 67 Avenio trams and includes an option for up to 17 additional trams. The four-section trains are to be delivered step by step for service in Bremen's tram network beginning in the spring of 2019.
Press Release | 29. Jun 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Bremen orders new tram fleet from Siemens

    Bremer Straßenbahn AG orders 67 Avenio trams
    Option for up to 17 additional trams
    Commissioning to begin in spring 2019

The German operator Bremer Straßenbahn AG (BSAG) has ordered 67 Avenio trams from Siemens. The order includes an option for up to 17 additional trams. The four-section trains will begin service in Bremen's tram network step by step beginning in spring of 2019. The city's network is comprised of seven lines with 163 stations and has a total length of 79 kilometers. The Avenios will replace the GT8N-series trams currently in service and will have the type designation GT8N-2.
Press Release | 29. Jun 2017 | Siemens Mobility
500th electric Vectron locomotive ordered

    Additional eight Vectron locomotives for European Locomotive Leasing (ELL)
    ELL is currently the biggest Vectron customer
    507 locomotives have been ordered to date

European Locomotive Leasing (ELL), a provider of full-service leasing of electric locomotives, has ordered an additional eight Vectron locomotives from Siemens. ELL is currently the biggest Vectron customer. The multisystem locomotives have a maximum output of 6.4 MW and a top speed of 200 km/h. ELL will lease the locomotives to the Czech railway České Dráhy for passenger service on the Prague-Berlin route. With this order, Siemens has passed the mark of 500 sold electric locomotives – and the counter now stands at 507 in total.
Press Release | 26. Jun 2017 | Siemens Mobility
The first building in the world that interacts with people

    Agnelli Foundation's historic headquarters in Italy transformed into a digitally responsive building
    Innovative indoor positioning system from Siemens
    Real time adaptation of occupants needs through Internet of Things technologies
    Communication with the building systems via an easy-to-use smartphone app

Agnelli Foundation in Italy has had its historic headquarters in Turin transformed into an advanced Internet of Things (IoT) office building, demonstrating how digitalization is transforming conventional workplaces into the smart workplaces of the future. The new office featuring 3,000 m2 of coworking space was opened in mid-June.
Press Release | 26. Jun 2017 |
Munich-Allach plant wins order for 500th electric Vectron locomotive

    Additional eight Vectron locomotives for European Locomotive Leasing (ELL)
    ELL is currently the biggest Vectron customer
    507 locomotives have been ordered to date

Siemens has sold its 500th electric Vectron locomotive. The jubilee locomotive was ordered by European Locomotive Leasing (ELL), a provider of full-service leasing of locomotives and currently the biggest Vectron customer. The follow-up order from ELL is for eight multisystem locomotives that will be leased to the Czech railway carrier České Dráhy for passenger service on the Prague-Berlin route. A total of 507 electric Vectron locomotives have been ordered to date.
Press Release | 26. Jun 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens acquires provider of monitoring systems for rail rolling stock and infrastructure

    Siemens Mobility Division further expands digitalized service and maintenance business
    MRX Technologies provides condition monitoring for rolling stock and rail infrastructure and inspection systems for rail networks
    MRX Technologies will operate in the Mobility Division as a legally independent affiliated company of Siemens AG

Siemens acquires the MRX Technologies Group, headquartered in Perth, Australia, and is further expanding its offering in the field of predictive maintenance based on digitalization. The Group is comprised of JRB Engineering Pty Ltd., MRX Technologies Ltd., MRX Rail Services Pty Ltd. and MRX Rail Service UK Ltd. The parties agreed not to disclose financial details of the acquisition. The acquired company will be managed as a legally independent firm within the Siemens Mobility Division. Closing of the transaction is expected early in July.
Press Release | 23. Jun 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens protects UK Power Networks' distribution grid
Siemens has received an order from distribution network operator, UK Power Networks, to equip parts of its overhead-line system with 600 Fusesaver vacuum circuit-breakers and 200 remote control units (RCU). The vacuum circuit-breakers will be installed directly on overhead cables to minimise the number of customers affected in the event of a fault. This will minimize installation and maintenance costs while significantly improving supply reliability and grid stability. "This order is an important milestone in the development of the European market for the Fusesaver," said Stephan May, CEO of Medium Voltage Systems at Siemens. "UK Power Networks is an important partner for us." It is the largest order to date for Fusesavers in Europe and the first one from the U.K. The order volume is €1.5 million.
Press Release | 22. Jun 2017 |
Siemens supplies 46 transformer substations to Bangladesh
Siemens has received an order from the state-run energy provider, Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board (BREB), to supply 46 transformer substations for Bangladesh. The order includes the design, delivery and installation as well as testing and commissioning of the substations, which have a voltage level of 33 and 11 kilovolts (kV). The equipment is intended to be used for the distribution grid in the states of Dhaka, Chittagong and Sylhet and increasingly supply rural areas with electricity. The order volume for Siemens is worth round EUR 40 million.
Press Release | 14. Jun 2017 |
Siemens to build eleven light rail vehicles for Phoenix

    Valley Metro orders 11 light rail vehicles from Siemens
    Option for up to 67 additional vehicles

The urban transport company Phoenix Valley Metro Rail has ordered 11 new S70 light rail vehicles (LRV) from Siemens. The vehicles will operate in Phoenix, in the U.S. state of Arizona. The order also includes an option for up to 67 additional vehicles. The new vehicles offer a larger interior, energy-efficient LED lighting, and heavy-duty air conditioning systems. The trams for Valley Metro will be built at Siemens' manufacturing plant in Sacramento, California.
Press Release | 14. Jun 2017 |
Duke Energy and Siemens enter innovative agreement for advanced gas turbine technologies

    Proposed Lincoln County Combustion Turbine site expansion provides cost savings for Duke Energy customers
    Highly efficient and flexible gas turbine technology supports the expanding use of renewables
    Charlotte-manufactured gas turbines contribute to regional economic development 

Lower customer costs, regional economic growth, increased efficiency and flexibility are potential benefits of a recent agreement between Duke Energy and Siemens. Duke Energy submitted plans to the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) for expansion of its Lincoln County Combustion Turbine (LCCT) generation site. The proposal includes Siemens as the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contractor for the project, including supply of the advanced gas turbine unit.
Press Release | 13. Jun 2017 |
Siemens to deliver key equipment for power plant in Jordan

    Two steam turbo sets for the Attarat power plant

Siemens will supply the key components for the Attarat steam power plant in Jordan. The customer China Energy Engineering Group Guangdong Power Engineering Co. Ltd. will build the facility as general contractor for the operator of the plant, the Attarat Power Company. Siemens' scope of supply comprises two SST5-5000 steam turbines, two air-cooled SGen5-1200A generators, and the turbine control system. The condenser is air cooled to address the lack of water at the site. This can be seen as a global trend for dry areas where water is mainly used for households, farming and ecosystem. The power plant will start operation in mid-2020 and will feed up to 470 megawatts to Jordan's power grid.
Press Release | 07. Jun 2017 |
Siemens and TCS join Forces for Industrial IoT on MindSphere

    TCS to develop Applications and Digital Services for Manufacturing Customers
    Further cooperation for Energy, Healthcare, Railway and Building Technology customers will follow
    Customers benefit from new Industrial Experience and Digital Insights
    Application Development and Management for MindSphere Core Platform and Cloud Gateway MindConnect Nano 

Tata Consultancy Services a leading global IT services, consulting and business solutions organization, and Siemens today unveiled a new collaboration around Internet of Things (IoT) innovation. Focused on customers in the manufacturing, energy, building technology, healthcare and railway industries the partnership will enable customers to benefit from new data insights and services based on MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system from Siemens.
Press Release | 06. Jun 2017 | Digital Industries
Statement from Siemens Regarding Paris Climate Accord
Siemens has committed to cut our global carbon footprint in half by 2020 and to make our global operations carbon neutral by 2030. This commitment is not contingent on international treaties or regulations.
Feature | 02. Jun 2017 | Siemens AG
Hupac orders eight multisystem locomotives from Siemens

    Service on the Rhine-Alpine Corridor
    Deliveries begin early summer 2018
    Equipped with ETCS

The Swiss intermodal transport company Hupac has ordered eight Vectron MS locomotives from Siemens. The multisystem locomotives will serve on the Rhine-Alpine Corridor (DACHINL). Deliveries will begin in the early summer of 2018. The locomotives have a maximum output of 6.4 MW and a top speed of 160 km/h. In addition to having national train control systems, the locomotives will also be equipped with the European Train Control System (ETCS). They will be built in the Siemens plant in Munich-Allach, Germany.
Press Release | 01. Jun 2017 |
Largest single contract for Vectron loco
The Finnish Railways, VR Group, ordered 80 electric Vectron locomotives from Siemens. The new locomotives are designed to operate reliably even under the extreme climatic conditions in Scandinavia during their long service life. Siemens was able to provide clear evidence of their capability during comprehensive test and authorization trips in Sweden and Norway. For Siemens this marks the largest single contract so far for its latest generation of Vectron locomotives and the first for this type in the broad gauge version.
Feature | 31. May 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Generating power for the world market: Industrial generator Sigentics M

    Highly flexible scope for adjustment to specific applications
    40 years of trouble-free operation due to high-quality, robust design
    Outstanding efficiency of up to 98.4 percent
    Reduced project execution times due to short delivery periods and simple, modular configuration 

As part of its extensive portfolio of generators serving the world market, the Sigentics M from Siemens comes in shaft heights of 710 and 800 and provides the ideal solution no matter what the application. Not only does the generator itself offer outstanding flexibility in terms of electric parameters, cooling method and design to precisely suit the relevant application, but this adaptability also extends to the relevant documentation. With an efficiency level of up to 98.4 percent, the Sigentics M provides the greatest possible energy yield and so makes a major contribution to sustainability. Extremely short delivery periods, a simple modular configuration, simplified transport logistics and plant integration due to minimized dimensions and weights all help to speed up project execution time. With its high-quality, robust design, the industrial generator offers an impressive service life of over 40 years. Because it complies with international, national and industry-specific certification requirements, the Sigentics M qualifies for use anywhere around the world. Its fields of application range from power generation through marine engineering to various uses in the oil and gas industry.
Press Release | 30. May 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens hosted Germany-wide young researchers competition
Under the motto "Future – it's my creation." Siemens teamed up for the third time with the Stiftung Jugend forscht to host Germany's best-known youth competition. The company previously hosted the nationwide event in 1976 and 1997. This year's competition, the fifty-second, took place in Erlangen, Germany, on May 25-28, 2017. The final winners were selected by a jury from among the 200 winners of statewide contests and presented with their awards on May 28 by the German Minister of Education and Research.
Feature | 28. May 2017 | Siemens AG
Innovative design concept for Simotics HV C

    Compact design with minimal dimensions and weights
    Innovative cooling system in the flameproof variant
    Increased performance density and reliability 

Simotics HV C is a new series of compact high-voltage motors for applications requiring water jacket cooling or a flameproof enclosure conforming to Ex d IIB. With new and innovative design features, the Simotics HV C series offers high performance density and reliability under even the most extreme conditions. The flameproof variant uses a innovative cooling concept to achieve a marked boost to performance without any increase in size, while the water-cooled variant achieves improved utilization through an optimized cooling system. Reliability and durability have been increased as a result of improved temperature distribution. These benefits, in conjunction with the vibration-optimized, rugged housing design, lend these high-voltage motors an extended performance spectrum and greater application scope. The compact, reliable Simotics HV C motors are suitable for widely diverse applications in sectors such as marine technology and mining, as well as the paper, metal, chemical, oil and gas industries.
Press Release | 24. May 2017 |
Siemens wins 3D Printing Industry Award

    Award in category "3D Printing application of the year" for world's first successfully tested 3D printed gas turbine blades

Siemens is a winner of the international 3D Printing Industry Award in the category "3D Printing application of the year". The company was honored for the worldwide first successful test of gas turbine blades manufactured with Additive Manufacturing (AM). The prize was handed over to Siemens representatives by Michael Petch, editor-in-chief at '3Dprintingindustry.com', at the award ceremony in London, United Kingdom, in the presence of international experts from the AM industry.
Press Release | 22. May 2017 |
Its like a dream - Siemens Opera Contest
İlkin Alpay can still feel the awe-inspiring boards of Carnegie Hall beneath her feet. After singing at the world-famous venue, she's surrounded by adoring New York music fans: today is just like a dream for the young soprano.
Feature | 18. May 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens launches new gas engine E-series with power output of 2 MW

    Expanded portfolio for distributed power generation in the low-MW range

Siemens has launched its new gas engine E-series with a power output of two megawatts (MW). It includes both the SGE-86EM for the 50-Hz market and the SGE-100EM for the 60-Hz market. The new E-series engine has 12 cylinders and offers a large volume per cylinder, high displacement and best-in-class efficiency in the market. With the new 2-MW SGE-86EM and the SGE-100EM engines, Siemens is providing a broader spectrum of efficient products and solutions for clean, low-MW-range distributed power generation.
Press Release | 18. May 2017 |
Siemens Opera Contest chooses first winner in France

    Mikhail Timoshenko (24) wins the Siemens Opera Contest France
    Siemens has been a long-standing partner of the Opéra National de Paris
    Siemens Arts Program supports outstanding young talents 

Siemens has chosen the first winner of the Siemens Opera Contest France at the Palais Garnier in Paris. Mikhail Timoshenko, a 24-year-old baritone, impressed the expert jury consisting of Jean-Yves Kaced, Development Director of the Paris Opera, Matthias Schulz, Director of the Staatsoper Berlin, Dr. Clemens Trautmann, CEO of Deutsche Grammophon and Prof. Stephan Frucht, Artistic Director of the Siemens Arts Program.
Press Release | 18. May 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens to be technology partner in a smart grid pilot project in Rotterdam

    Connection of 20,000 smart home solutions and distributed energy sources to the smart grid is planned by 2020
    Aim of the project: Intelligent control of power generation and consumption in Rotterdam, starting in Merwe-Vierhavens district
    Decentralized Energy Management System DEMS selected as a platform for the Rotterdam Smart Electricity Grid

The city of Rotterdam, the Dutch grid operator Stedin and Dutch energy service provider Lyv Smart Lyving will start with Siemens as their technology partner for the Smart Electrical Grid in the Rotterdam pilot project. During the course of this project, 20,000 smart home solutions and distributed energy sources such as wind turbines or photovoltaic plants are to be connected to a smart grid over the next three years. The core element will be the Siemens decentralized energy management system DEMS. Omnetric Group, the Siemens joint venture with Accenture, is to deliver the IT services for the project.
Press Release | 18. May 2017 |
30 additional vehicles for Seattle and Central Puget Sound Area

    Sound Transit is exercising an option of a contract signed in 2016
    In total, 152 LRVs from Siemens for Seattle and Central Puget Sound area
    Delivery starts early 2019

Sound Transit, the regional transit system serving the Seattle and Central Puget Sound area in the US state of Washington, has placed an order with Siemens for 30 additional S70 type light rail vehicles (LRVs). The trains will be operated on the regional transit system serving Seattle and the central Puget Sound area. With this order, Sound Transit is exercising an option of a contract that was signed in 2016. The original contract was for a total of 122 LRVs. This new order will bring the total number of Siemens light rail vehicles for the region to 152. The trains will be built at the Siemens plant in Sacramento, California, where the first batch is now in production. The first LRV is expected to arrive in early 2019.
Press Release | 16. May 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens to upgrade controls system at Nehuenco power plant in Chile
Building on its commitment to innovative power plant solutions, Siemens has been awarded a contract from Colbún S.A. to upgrade the Central Termoeléctrica Nehuenco-I plant with Siemens' Power Plant Automation T3000 Cue (SPPA-T3000) system. The 368-megawatt (MW) combined cycle power plant is located in Quillota, Valparaíso Region, in Chile and provides electricity to approximately 350,000 homes in the region.
Feature | 16. May 2017 | Gas and Power
Light rail from Siemens for Seattle and Central Puget Sound area
Siemens has been awarded a contract to provide 152 new S70 light rail vehicles (LRVs) for Sound Transit, the regional transit system serving the Seattle and Central Puget Sound area in the US state of Washington. The S70s light rail vehicles will be built at the Siemens rail manufacturing hub in Sacramento, California. The fleet is expected to begin testing in 2019.
Feature | 16. May 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens at UITP International Mass Transit Trade Show 2017
"Lead the TRANSITion" was the motto of this year's UITP International Mass Transit Trade Show in Montreal. At the bi-annual Global Public Transport Summit, the Siemens Mobility Division was again be represented this year with intelligent mobility solutions. From May 15 to 17, 2017, at booth (SK100) on Level 02 of the Conference Center, Siemens was showcasing integrated and sustainable transport solutions which help to get the best out of existing infrastructures – using not only state-of-the-art hardware but also intelligent management systems. This is the only way to deliver future-proof mobility services in the face of rising energy costs, limited space and growing demands. Digitalization of proven transport solutions plays a key role in achieving this goal, as it allows availability and passenger comfort to be improved and throughput to be maximized.
Montreal | 15. May 2017 - 17. May 2017 | Siemens Mobility Save the date
The highest switchgear in Europe: Siemens electrifies cable car lift on Klein Matterhorn
Siemens has received an order from Elektrizitätswerk Zermatt AG to electrify the new cable car lift running to Matterhorn glacier paradise (Klein Matterhorn) in Zermatt, Switzerland. Siemens will supply an 8DJH medium-voltage switchgear for the alpine station situated at an elevation of 3,883 meters. The equipment is intended to secure a reliable power supply for the cable car lift and the station. It will be installed at the highest elevation in Europe. The cable car lift, which belongs to Zermatt Bergbahn AG, is expected to be completed by the winter of 2018.
Press Release | 15. May 2017 |
Siemens to provide long-term service at two power plants in Argentina

    Service, maintenance and performance upgrades for Genelba and Genelba 21 power plants
    Includes Power Diagnostics® and Remote Monitoring from Siemens Digital Services for Energy portfolio

Building on the continued success of its energy business in Argentina, Siemens has agreements with Pampa Energia S.A. to provide long-term service and maintenance at two power plants in the country. One agreement covers the SGT5-2000E gas turbine operating at the Genelba 21 simple cycle power plant for a period of 10 years. The other is an eight-year service and maintenance agreement for the two SGT5-4000F gas turbines and the SST-5000 steam turbine in operation at the Genelba combined cycle power plant (CCPP). Both plants are located in Marcos Paz, Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Together they can produce 825 megawatts (MW) of electricity to the region, enough to power approximately 83,000 homes.
Press Release | 15. May 2017 |
First turbines for expansion of Bolivian power plants start their journey

    Two industrial gas turbines travel almost 16,000 kilometers from Sweden to the power plant Termoeléctrica del Sur in Bolivia
    Logistical challenge to carry up to 400 special transports with heavy load over the Andes Mountains

The first Siemens gas turbines for the expansion of three power plants in Bolivia have started their way to South America. In May 2016, Siemens has signed the corresponding agreement to increase the power generating capacity of the country by more than one gigawatt. The two machines, manufactured at Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery in Finspang, were loaded onto a heavy load carrier in the harbor of Norrköping, Sweden. The cargo with more than 170 tons will travel first up to 14,000 kilometers on sea route to the harbor of Arica in Chile. From there the modules will be transported to Bolivia traveling additional 1,800 kilometers in partially rough terrain. In total, power plant equipment from three continents will be delivered to Bolivia and up to 400 heavy load transports will cross the Andes to bring equipment to the three power plant construction sites.
Press Release | 12. May 2017 |
Siemens implements further targeted efficiency improvements at individual businesses

    Centralized storage facility planned for Digital Factory Division in Amberg region
    Company's global enterprise IT activities to be modernized and digitalized
    Bundling of training expertise in Germany

Siemens is rigorously pursuing further targeted efficiency improvements at individual businesses. Plans call, among other things, for reviewing the geographical setup of Siemens' own IT activities and driving the digitalization of its own processes. A centralization of the storage facilities at the Digital Factory Division is also planned. These steps will be accompanied by a bundling of training expertise in order to continue meeting the requirements of the future working world as well as by measures to secure the competitive position of the Mobility Division.
Press Release | 11. May 2017 | Siemens AG
Dresser-Rand to supply three compressor trains for pipeline in Thailand
The Dresser-Rand business, part of Siemens Power and Gas, will supply three gas turbine-driven turbo compressor trains for the Wang Noi compressor station in Thailand. Samsung Engineering Co., Ltd. is constructing the station. Owner of the station is Thailand's state-owned oil and gas company, PTT Public Company Limited (PTT). The project is expected to be completed in 2018.
Press Release | 11. May 2017 |
Siemens is building a system test center for converters in Nuremberg

    Modern test lab for high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission technology
    Siemens invests EUR 35 million in the new building
    Shorter test times, higher test currents, and innovative test technologies

Siemens is building a modern system test center in Nuremberg for the latest generation of power converters, which are used in international high-voltage transmission projects. A test hall with five test bays, control rooms, and office areas is being built in approximately 9,400 square meters of space on the grounds of the Nuremberg transformer factory, on behalf of the Transmission Solutions Business Unit in the Energy Management Division. The construction will be completed by the spring of 2018. The total investment in buildings and technology amounts to approximately 35 million.
Press Release | 10. May 2017 |
Sen to be responsible for Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy within Siemens' Managing Board
Michael Sen, member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG, will – additionally to his current duties – now be responsible for Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy within Siemens' Managing Board. Until recently, Sen was a member of the management team of Europe's largest energy supplier and acquired extensive expertise in the management of listed equity investments. Sen is also responsible within Siemens' Managing Board for the company's healthcare business and its global services unit.
Press Release | 09. May 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens and Chromalloy form casting joint venture

    New casting facility for turbine blade and vane components
    Company name Advanced Airfoil Components
    USD130 million investment will create up to 350 new jobs
    Shipment of initial components in 2018 

Siemens and Chromalloy Gas Turbine Corporation have entered a partnership to form a new joint venture called Advanced Airfoil Components. The primary scope of the company will be turbine blade and vane cast components for power generation. Both partners are investing approximately USD130 million in combined value to create a new production facility. This investment will create up to 350 new jobs in the United States. The groundbreaking of the new manufacturing facility is scheduled to take place later this year. The location is being finalized and multiple southern states are under evaluation. The facility is scheduled for completion in the fall of 2018. The stand-alone manufacturing plant will supply only to Siemens. Start-up part qualifications and production shipments are in process at Chromalloy's existing facility.
Press Release | 09. May 2017 |
Siemens wins EUR790 million substation contract in Qatar

    Biggest-ever contract in Qatar
    Contract for 35 substations received from KAHRAMAA
    Project supports country's ambitions for a reliable power transmission network

State-owned utility Qatar General Water & Electricity Corporation (KAHRAMAA) has awarded Siemens the largest contract to-date in Qatar for the expansion of the country's power transmission network. As part of the deal, valued at EUR790 million, Siemens will deliver 35 turnkey super and primary substations for Phase 13 of the Qatar Power Transmission System Expansion project. This marks a significant milestone for Siemens, which has maintained involvement in every stage of the project since Phase 4. Completion is scheduled in two years' time.
Press Release | 08. May 2017 |
Brightline - Comfortable travel between Florida's cities
For the first time in many decades, a private company began planning and developing a fast intercity connection in the United States in 2012. The new Florida East Coast Railway will operate up to 16 pairs of trains from Miami Central Station via Fort Lauderdale to West Palm Beach. The operator of All Aboard Florida, a subsidiary of Florida East Coast Industries, plans to begin service on the route in 2017. The comfortable express trains, which will run under the trade name "Brightline," were ordered from Siemens in 2014. Siemens will also take over service and maintenance of the Brightline trains for a period of 30 years.
Feature | 08. May 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Fastcharging system for electric vehicles – less than ten minutes for 100 kilometers

    Siemens high power charging system charges current and future electric vehicles in less than ten minutes for a 100 kilometer range
    Simultaneous charging of up to three electric vehicles
    Support for main charging standards CCS, CHAdeMO and Type 2

With an output of 150 kilowatts, the new generation of the Siemens high power charging system is capable of charging current and future electric vehicles with voltages of up to 920 volts. This means that a charging time of just ten minutes will enable electric vehicles to travel distances of over 100 kilometers. Up to three electric vehicles in compliance with the main charging standards CCS, CHAdeMO and Type 2 can be charged in parallel.
Press Release | 05. May 2017 | Digital Industries
Metalworking goes digital: experience Industry 4.0 in manufacturing "live"

    Siemens is using Digital Enterprise to drive forward the digitalization of its industrial business
    Electric motor plant in Bad Neustadt an der Saale is being developed as a showcase factory for digital applications in metalworking
    "Arena of Digitalization" presents digitalization solutions from the plant in Bad Neustadt an der Saale in an exhibition space covering over 800 square meters
    "Arena of Digitalization" is a clear commitment to the Bad Neustadt an der Saale location

Siemens is one of the world's leading providers of automation, control and electric drive technology for industry. Electric motors for industrial use have been manufactured at the Siemens site in Bad Neustadt an der Saale for 80 years. Digitalization is playing an increasingly important role at this site. For this reason, the plant is going to be developed as a showcase factory for digitalization in metalworking. In the new "Arena of Digitalization" covering an area of more than 800 square meters, Siemens is now showing customers and partners how digitalization is used in metalworking and motor production and what results can be achieved with it. In addition, using its own development and the way production has grown over many years as an example, the showcase factory demonstrates how digitalization already offers advantages in terms of productivity and efficiency for the discrete manufacturing industry.
Press Release | 05. May 2017 | Digital Industries
Earnings Release and Financial Results Q2 FY 2017: Another strong quarter – profitable growth continuing

    Revenue rose 6% compared to Q2 FY 2016, to €20.2 billion, including a strong performance by short-cycle businesses, and orders were €22.6 billion, up 2% despite a high basis of comparison including orders totaling €3.1 billion in Q2 FY 2016 in Egypt; the book-to-bill ratio was 1.12
    On a comparable basis, excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue rose 5% and orders increased 1%
    Strong margin expansion in nearly all industrial businesses due to strong operational execution, and a €138 million positive effect from pension plan amendments, took Industrial Business profit margin up to 12.1%
    Industrial Business profit climbed 18% year-over-year, to €2.5 billion
    Net income was level at €1.5 billion, despite a higher income tax rate and a lower contribution to net income from discontinued operations; basic earnings per share (EPS) of €1.79 compared to €1.78 in Q2 FY 2016
    At the end of Q2 FY 2017, Siemens acquired all shares of Mentor Graphics Corporation (Mentor Graphics) and, at the beginning of Q3 FY 2017, closed the merger of Siemens' wind power business with Gamesa Corporación Tecnológica S.A. (Gamesa)

"We delivered another strong team performance and continue to outperform the markets. In the second half of the fiscal year, we will focus on duly integrating Mentor Graphics and on a successful start of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, while keeping a close eye on our operational performance. And there is more work to do."
Press Release | 04. May 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens signs agreements with Uganda and Sudan

    Memoranda of Understanding to cooperate in the areas of power supply, industry, transportation and healthcare
    Focus on infrastructure investments and partnerships between public and private sectors
    Participation in "Make IT Alliance" to promote start-ups and technology companies in Africa

Siemens will work more closely with the African countries Uganda and Sudan in the areas of power supply, industry, transportation and healthcare. The African states signed the corresponding Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) at the World Economic Forum 2017 in the South African city of Durban. The documents were signed in the presence of Brigitte Zypries, German Federal Minister for Economics and Energy, Joe Kaeser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG and further high-ranking personalities.
Press Release | 04. May 2017 | Siemens AG
Second Quarter Results FY 2017
We released our second quarter results for fiscal year 2017 on May 4, 2017. The Conference Call for journalists and the Analyst Call were broadcast live. 
Munich | 03. May 2017 - 03. May 2017 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens to build cogeneration plant in Berlin

    Heat and power for the eastern districts of Germany's capital
    Fuel efficiency rating of 90 percent
    Long-term service agreement
    Gas turbine from Siemens’ Berlin Manufacturing Plant

Siemens has received an order to build a new cogeneration plant in the Marzahn district of Berlin. The company will act as general contractor for the energy utility company Vattenfall Europe Wärme AG to erect this natural-gas fired combined-cycle power plant with district heat extraction. The centerpiece of the plant will be its gas turbine, which will be manufactured at Siemens' gas turbine plant in Berlin’s Moabit district. Scheduled to begin operation in 2020, this cogeneration facility will produce electric power while simultaneously supplying the east side of the German capital with district heating. The plant has an electrical generating capacity of 260 megawatts (MW) and a thermal capacity of 230 MW. The plant will contribute significantly to sustainably reducing Berlin's CO2 emissions. The order awarded to Siemens also comprises a long-term service agreement covering the gas turbine-generator set.
Press Release | 03. May 2017 |
Charger: Most environmentally friendly diesel locomotive
In 2014, the Departments of Transportation of California, Illinois and Maryland ordered an initial lot of 34 Charger locomotives from Siemens, with an option for a total of 222 locomotives. The contract back then was valued at approximately €165 million ($225 million). Due to orders from other states as well as by the private rail operator All Aboard Florida, the total number of Chargers ordered amounts to 81 in 2017. The locomotives are deployed in corridors of the US states for regional and mainline trains travelling for Caltrains (California) as Amtrak Pacific Surfliner, in Washington as Amtrak Cascades and in Maryland with the regional network MARC. Under the "Brightline" brand, ten Chargers are being deployed in high-speed rail services between Miami and West Palm Beach; Orlando is due to follow at a later date.
Feature | 02. May 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens introduces 38-MW aeroderivative gas turbine for oil and gas industry

    Evolved from trusted Industrial RB211 and Dresser-Rand legacies
    Up to 30 percent smaller footprint and lighter solution for offshore applications
    Highest power density in this class of turbines

Using the combined expertise from its acquisitions of Dresser-Rand and Rolls-Royce Energy business, Siemens launches the latest evolution of its gas turbine portfolio – the SGT-A35 RB. The unit addresses the need for more cost-effective solutions for the offshore oil and gas industry by increasing the power density of the topside power generating equipment, thus reducing the required space claim. The lightweight, aeroderivative gas turbine can generate up to 38 megawatts (MW) and is integrated into a compact, lightweight Dresser-Rand package, which is up to 30 percent smaller and lighter than Industrial RB211 predecessors.
Press Release | 02. May 2017 |
Siemens offers new compact vacuum circuit breakers
Siemens has developed two new compact vacuum circuit breakers for rated voltages of 12 kilovolts (kV) and 24 kV. The Sion Lateral 3AE61 and 3AE63 circuit breakers have a particularly compact design and are more lightweight than comparable products. As the most important element in switchgear, circuit breakers reliably switch all operating and residual currents, secure the load flow in the electrical system and protect the distribution grid and connected consumers against the effects of short-circuits. Unlike gas-insulated switches, vacuum circuit breakers interrupt the arc in a vacuum interrupter. The hermetically sealed vacuum interrupters are generally maintenance-free and independent of environmental influences. Not least, no oxidation takes place in the vacuum, so that the contacts remain permanently clean, thus ensuring consistent switching behavior.
Press Release | 28. Apr 2017 |
Siemens offers new components for power monitoring system
Siemens has added two new measuring devices and an expansion module to its Sentron portfolio. The TÜV-tested devices for the 7KM PAC3200T and 7KM PAC2200 standard mounting rails measure all relevant variables of an AC system. The devices can be easily integrated into higher-level automation and energy management systems via integrated communication interfaces to further process the measured data. Together with the powermanager software, the devices offer a power monitoring system that is particularly suitable for small and medium-sized companies. The 7KM PAC expansion module, I(N), I(Diff), analog, can be used to add more functions to the 7KM PAC3200 and 7KM PAC4200 measuring devices.
Press Release | 28. Apr 2017 |
Siemens to acquire a leading software provider for public transportation, mobility and logistics

    Expansion of Siemens' offerings with industry-specific software for the mobility sector – rigorous implementation of digitalization strategy
    HaCon to be managed as separate legal entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Siemens AG in the Mobility Division
    Transaction still subject to approval by antitrust authorities, with closing planned for first half of calendar 2017

Siemens is planning to acquire HaCon, a company headquartered in Hanover, Germany. The two parties have agreed not to disclose financial details. Pending the approval of antitrust authorities, the deal is expected to be concluded in the first half of calendar year 2017.
Press Release | 28. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG
Dresser-Rand to supply compressor trains for BP project in the Gulf of Mexico
The Dresser-Rand business, part of Siemens Power and Gas Division, received an order from BP to provide rotating equipment for the Mad Dog 2 project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The scope of supply comprises two DATUM compressor trains driven by Siemens electric motors for export gas service. The equipment is scheduled to ship in 2018, with oil production of the platform expected to begin late in 2021.
Press Release | 27. Apr 2017 |
Ivanka Trump visits Siemens training center in Berlin

    First Daughter learns about two-track training in Germany as follow-up to White House forum
    Siemens training around 12,000 young people worldwide
    655,000 employees upskilling in e-learning modules
    Total investment of more than 500 million euro a year in training and continuing education

During her trip to Germany, Ivanka Trump, First Daughter and Assistant to the U.S. President Donald Trump, visited Siemens' training center in Berlin. Accompanied by Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG, she talked to trainees and teachers at the facility to find out more about Germany's two-track training system. Ivanka Trump's visit to Berlin followed a roundtable on vocational education and workforce development that she hosted with German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the White House in March. At the event, Joe Kaeser, who was among the participants, made several commitments to President Trump regarding U.S. workforce development, including for example leading an industry effort to significantly expand apprenticeship programs in the United States.
Press Release | 25. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG
adidas and Siemens set to collaborate in the digital production of sporting goods
adidas and Siemens today announced their intention to collaborate in the digital production of sporting goods. As part of a joint research and development program, the partners will be working to drive forward the digitalization of the adidas SPEEDFACTORY to ultimately develop capabilities for fast, transparent and individualized production.
Press Release | 24. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG
Sinacon HC – hybrid converter for innovative grids

    Connection of different energy sources using a converter with a choice of DC and AC terminals
    Flexibility through the operation of different DC sources such as batteries
    Islanding capability for microgrids 

Sinacon HC is a modular, flexible hybrid converter for innovative grids which links different power sources and batteries to the public grid or can be used to create microgrids. The ready-to-connect converter cabinet is convenient to use, and its flexibility provides innovative scope for feeding into public grids as well as the creation and operation of microgrids, for instance by integrating renewable energy sources such as wind or solar.
Press Release | 24. Apr 2017 |
Industrie 4.0: Siemens demonstrates digital twin in actual operation

    As a front runner in the world of automation, Siemens drives forward digitalization of its own business and industry as a whole with its Digital Enterprise
    MindSphere the cloud-based, open IoT operating system: consistent expansion of the portfolio with new partners and solutions
    Siemens creates open digital marketplace for additive manufacturing

Over an area of 3,800 square meters under the banner "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise" in Hall 9 at this year's Hannover Messe, Siemens will be demonstrating how companies of any size can benefit from the digital revolution. At the Siemens booth, visitors can experience how Siemens as a front runner in the world of automation is driving forward the process of digitalization not only of its own business but across the whole of industry. The focus this year will be on the company's further expanded portfolio for the "Digital Enterprise", which links the virtual and real production worlds through the simulation of machines and plants using digital twins, or with the aid of MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system. Using examples from the fields of additive manufacturing, energy for industry and dairy industry as well as pharmaceuticals, Siemens will be showcasing ways in which digitalization can already be used today across every stage of the entire value chain, securing its customers a real competitive edge through greater flexibility, efficiency and quality.
Press Release | 24. Apr 2017 |
New Remote Terminal Unit expands scope for telecontrol applications

    Simple implementation and monitoring of measurement stations for process data
    Cyclically controlled and event-driven transmission of process values
    Flexible link to control center and rapid integration in Sinaut plants
    Web-based engineering simplifies commissioning

The new Remote Terminal Unit Simatic RTU3010C and the functions added to the Simatic RTU3030C are extending the application scope of compact RTUs for telecontrol applications. These can be used for the simple implementation and monitoring of measurement points for important process data such as level, flow and fill level, as well as pressure and temperature, even for plants spread over a wide geographical area. The transmission of process values can be cyclically controlled or event-driven. The RTUs can be connected to any control center using different telecontrol protocols – also standardized protocols. With the support of telecontrol protocols such as Sinaut ST7, the two compact RTUs can be ideally integrated into new or existing Sinaut ST7 and Scada systems. By means of integrated inputs and outputs, sensors can be directly connected. Together with web-based engineering, this helps simplify commissioning. Fields of application for RTUs include the water and wastewater industry, agriculture and asset management.
Press Release | 24. Apr 2017 |
Siemens at the Hannover Messe 2017
On the first day of the Hannover Messe, April 24, Klaus Helmrich welcomed you to the annual Siemens Press Conference. As member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG, Klaus Helmrich is responsible for the Digital Factory as well as Process Industries and Drives Divisions. The Press Conference took place at 6:30 PM in the Trade Fair's Convention Center, Room 1 A/B. Mr Helmrich talked about current digitalization trends in the manufacturing and process industries under the heading "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise".
Hanover | 23. Apr 2017 - 27. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG, Smart Infrastructure, Digital Industries Save the date
Connecting RFID to cloud systems such as MindSphere boosts efficiency and quality

    Simatic RF600 MindSphere link with OPC UA
    First RFID system with data transmission to MindSphere
    OPC UA enables seamless communication with third-party applications
    Project engineering via web interface in the browser

With the launch of new firmware release V3, the Simatic RF600 RFID system now supports the open interface OPC UA. The new firmware allows devices to be connected to the cloud-based open Internet of Things (IoT) operating system MindSphere – for instance over the industrial IoT gateway Ruggedcom RX1400 with MindConnect or with the cloud gateway MindConnect Nano. Simatic RF600 acts as a link between the real and digital world and it´s the first RFID system that supplies data to MindSphere. Its platform-independent interface enables seamless communication with products and software which supports OPC UA. Project engineering takes place via a web interface in the browser. Fields of application include production, logistics and asset management. As a key standard on the way towards digitalization, OPC UA offers high performance and proven security mechanisms, and is considered by Siemens as a crucial element of any complete solution from the sensor through to the cloud.
Press Release | 21. Apr 2017 |
MindSphere with new partners, new applications and extended connectivity

    New infrastructure, app and technology partnerships
    Extended connectivity simplifies link-up to machines and plants
    New apps for industrial security and condition monitoring

Siemens is driving forward the expansion of its cloud-based open IoT operating system MindSphere with new partnerships, new apps and extended connectivity. The company will be joining forces with its partners at the Hannover Messe to showcase around 50 apps providing a range of new functions such as reducing security risks or improving the availability of connected machines and plants. Visitors to the trade fair booth will have the opportunity to discover a wide range of MindSphere applications and practical examples taken from across different branches of industry – from the manufacturing and process industries through to smart power distribution. Siemens will be showcasing these and other innovations in the "MindSphere Lounge" together with existing partners such as Atos, Accenture, Evosoft, SAP and Microsoft alongside its newly gained partners Amazon Web Services and Bluvision. Also featured at the Siemens booth will be extended scope for even faster, simpler connection of machines and plants to MindSphere, including a new program library and a router with integrated MindSphere connectivity.
Press Release | 21. Apr 2017 |
Integration into TIA Portal for simpler engineering of telecontrol solutions

    TIM 1531 IRC module permits Sinaut ST7 solutions in the TIA Portal
    Expansion of the Telecontrol product spectrum to include modular S7-1500 RTUs
    TIM 1531 IRC can be deployed as node and master station
    Media redundancy provides availability in the event of a fault

With its new TIM 1531 IRC communication module, Siemens is extending its telecontrol product spectrum to include modular RTUs (Remote Terminal Units) on the basis of the Advanced Controller Simatic S7-1500. This module enables Sinaut ST7 telecontrol solutions to be engineered directly in the TIA Portal (Step 7 Professional V14 SP1). This also applies to the proven TIM 3V-IE (Advanced) and TIM 4R-IE telecontrol modules for remote terminal units operating on the basis of Simatic S7-300/400. "Data point configuration" in the TIA Portal eliminates the need for programming work to transfer data to the control center. In conjunction with the standardized look and feel of the telecontrol modules for remote RTUs on the basis of the Simatic controllers, this enables faster, more cost-efficient engineering.
Press Release | 20. Apr 2017 |
Plug & Play for process automation – integrated engineering out-of-the-box

    New Simatic PCS 7 Plant Automation Accelerator Version 1.0
    Project engineering tool for planners and automation specialists
    For new and existing plants in the process industry
    System-neutral data management secures investment 

With the Simatic PCS 7 Plant Automation Accelerator, Siemens is launching a cross-system engineering tool for planners and automation specialists to allow simple, efficient Simatic PCS 7 process control system development. By providing consistency of the digital system from planning through automation to central data management, the new engineering tool supplies the conditions for improved decision security and more efficient processes across the whole plant – helping users to become sustainably more competitive.
Press Release | 20. Apr 2017 |
High-performance Simotics DP roller table motor for extreme conditions

    Approximately 25 percent power/torque increase compared to previous series
    Good vibration and shock resistance
    Robust, torsion-resistant enclosure copes with harsh ambient conditions

The new Simotics DP roller table motors achieve outstanding power density coupled with a significant power/torque increase of around 25 percent compared to the previous series. The torsionally resistant ring rib enclosure and bearing plates are made of spheroidal graphite cast iron (GGG) and are designed for use under the harshest of mechanical ambient conditions. Together with their higher vibration and shock resistance of up to 3M6 in compliance with EN 60721-3-3, Simotics DP roller table motors are ideal for use in steel mills, in particular for rolling, reversing and transporting red-hot metal blanks under the highest levels of mechanical stress and extreme environmental influences such as scale, dust and water.
Press Release | 19. Apr 2017 |
Siemens expands open cycle power plant in Kuwait with steam turbine

    Turbo set to increase the capacity of the Az Zour South 3 power plant by around 263 megawatts
    Gas turbine power plant will be transformed into an efficient combined cycle power plant

Siemens has received an order to deliver an industrial steam turbine package to expand the Az Zour South 3 open cycle gas turbine power plant to a combined cycle power plant. The plant is located in Kuwait and is operated by the Ministry of Electricity & Water (MEW). Siemens' customer is the Chinese EPC contractor SEPCOIII. The expansion will increase the total installed capacity of the plant by 263 megawatts (MW) without using any additional gas. The combined cycle power plant is expected to go into operation in mid-2019.
Press Release | 19. Apr 2017 |
Siemens will improve resilience of the Saudi Arabian power grid with mobile substations

    Includes world's most powerful transformers ever supplied for a mobile substation
    Fast-track installation and connection time of less than a wee

Siemens has been awarded an order to supply two mobile substations to National Grid SA, the transmission operator of Saudi Electricity Company. Based on the unique specifications from National Grid SA, Siemens has combined its existing innovative mobile substation modules together to design and manufacture two 380kV mobile substations able to fit and suit in any network area of the kingdom. With a rating of 502 megavolt amperes (MVA) each, these two high-voltage mobile substations will be the most powerful ever built in a single feeder configuration. A mobile substation is mounted on a special trailer and can easily be transported wherever needed.
Press Release | 19. Apr 2017 |
Compact cellular router with MindConnect enables direct connectivity to MindSphere

    Plug & play router Ruggedcom RX1400 for data transfer to MindSphere
    Pre-processing of data before transferring to MindSphere
    Proven reliability in extreme temperatures and harsh environments
    High bandwidth connectivity to remote locations

The Ruggedcom RX1400 router with MindConnect running in the VPE1400 is a plug & play solution that enables users to easily and reliably read out data with OPC UA and/or an S7-connection from their assets and pre-process it for the transfer to MindSphere. Subsequently, the encrypted data is transferred to MindSphere, where it is available for processing and analysis. The compact, single device solution provides the combined capabilities of data acquisition, conversion and communication with MindSphere. End devices can connect via serial, wireless LAN, optical or Ethernet connections. The connection to MindSphere can be setup with redundant paths, either via LTE or copper/fiber Ethernet and users benefit from the high bandwidth connectivity to remote locations. Proven reliability and ability to function in extreme temperatures from -40° C to +85° C and harsh environments make the Ruggedcom RX1400 with MindConnect an ideal choice for MindSphere data acquisition in industrial applications such as electric power, transportation, and oil & gas.
Press Release | 18. Apr 2017 |
Siemens launches Digital Asset Optimization project with DEWA in Middle East

    Digital Services to drive higher levels of operational efficiency of DEWA's power assets
    First-time development of an intelligent, self-learning gas turbine controller for SGT5-4000F gas turbines

Siemens and Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) have signed an agreement to collaborate on an advanced data-driven project. The project is designed to help DEWA achieve its vision of becoming a sustainable, innovative world-class utility, and to ensure the highest levels of performance, efficiency and reliability of its power generation assets.
Press Release | 18. Apr 2017 |
Totally IP65 protected Comfort Panels for operator control and monitoring

    Simatic HMI Comfort Panels PRO with 12, 15, 19 and 22 inch screen diagonals
    For cabinet-free visualization and automation
    High performance and functionality as well as many integrated interfaces and certifications
    Flexible mounting on stand, support arm system or centrally on the machine

Siemens has added Simatic HMI Comfort Panels PRO (PROtected) to its totally IP65 protected devices for operator control and monitoring. The new panels with 12, 15, 19 and 22 inch screen diagonals provide the same functions as the built-in units, and are designed for cabinet-free visualization and automation. With high performance and functionality as well as many integrated interfaces and certifications, these rugged devices are especially suitable for high-end machine-related applications. The new panels complement the range of IP65-PRO devices with the already available Industrial Flat Panel PRO (19 and 22 inch) and Panel PC PRO (15, 19 and 22 inch).
Press Release | 18. Apr 2017 |
Robust IWLAN devices enable flexible application in harsh environments

    New Scalance W778-1 M12 access points and W738-1 M12 client modules
    Compact design enables varied mounting and application options
    High protection rating IP65 devices transmit in compliance with WLAN standard IEEE 802.11n
    Simple integration into Totally Integrated Automation (TIA)

Siemens is extending its Industrial Wireless LAN (IWLAN) portfolio to include a selection of rugged new IP65 protection-rated devices in the form of Scalance W778-1 M12 access points and W738-1 M12 client modules. Their compact design creates scope for flexible, space-saving mounting, and in both hardware and firmware terms, they are ideally suited to cope with harsh industrial environments. These high-powered access points and client modules transmit in compliance with WLAN standard IEEE 802.11n, and support the 2.4 and five Gigahertz (GHz) frequency band. The flexible devices can also be integrated into the TIA environment, and are ideally suited for wireless local networking of equipment such as welding robots or screw driving controllers in the automotive industry.
Press Release | 18. Apr 2017 |
Siemens delivers battery storage systems to Stadtwerke Schwäbisch Hall
Siemens has received an order from Stadtwerke Schwäbisch Hall GmbH, a public utility company, to deliver a turnkey battery storage system. The Siestorage system will have an output of 1 megawatt at a capacity of more than 1.4 megawatt-hours. Siemens will deliver the complete solution in a container ready to be connected and will also install it. The public utility company will utilize the solution based on lithium-ion batteries for marketing primary control reserves. "Batteries can take in or dispense power within seconds, which makes them ideally suited for participating in the primary controlling power market. In the changing energy market, the Schwäbisch Hall public utility can use our Siestorage system to make sustainable contributions to a reliable energy supply," says Stephan May, CEO of the Medium Voltage and Systems Business Unit at Siemens. The system is expected to be connected to the grid and commence operation in the summer of 2017.
Press Release | 13. Apr 2017 |
Siemens to set up global logistics HQ in Dubai

    Setup underpins Dubai's position as key logistics hub, connecting East and West, North and South
    Decision supports legacy aspiration of Expo 2020 Dubai
    Siemens to strengthen Dubai's logistics sector through digitalization

Highlighting the importance of Dubai as a strategic logistics hub between East and West, North and South, Siemens has announced plans to set up its global logistics headquarters including its portfolio for airports, cargo infrastructure and ports in the emirate in the near future. The company will also target the site of Expo 2020 Dubai as the future location for this business after the exposition ends. The move supports the legacy aspirations of Expo 2020 Dubai, as well as the industrial and logistics developments in the emirate. Siemens sees great growth potential in the Middle East region and in the logistics market globally. The company expects this development to support its Vision 2020 and related logistics businesses, creating new growth opportunities globally.
Press Release | 12. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG
Compact, flexible Profinet switches for process automation

    Scalance XF-200BA product line for enhanced environmental conditions
    Selection of electrical and optical bus adapters for flexible use
    Integration of S2 devices in high availability R1 systems
    NAMUR/NE21 approval

Siemens offers Scalance XF-200BA, a new line of compact switches. The flexible use of various bus adapters allows users to set up electrical and optical line, star and ring structures. Bus adapters are available with RJ45, SCRJ and LC connection systems. Two types of switches are available: Scalance XF204-2BA, a standard switch for universal, cross-industry use, and the Scalance XF204-2BA DNA Y-switch for special tasks in process automation. An extended temperature range from -40 to +70° C together with approval for use in hazardous areas (ATEX Zone 2, IECEx) allow reliable use, even in harsh environments.
Press Release | 12. Apr 2017 |
Performance enhancements for Advanced Controllers for automation

    The firmware 2.1 for the Simatic S7-1500 Advanced Controller uses new functions of the Engineering Framework TIA Portal V14 SP1
    New fail-safe technology CPUs with extended scope of motion control functionalities
    Harmonized package of controller and servo drive system for mid-range motion control applications
    New power supply module for maximum data remanence in the event of power failures

The new firmware 2.1 for the Simatic S7-1500 Advanced Controller from Siemens now allows the user to use the new functions of the Engineering Framework TIA Portal V14 SP1. These include openness to other systems, such as the standardized, bi-directional exchange of engineering data via AutomationML (Automation Markup Language) with Eplan engineering software, the TIA Selection Tool or other CAE (Computer Aided Engineering) tools.
Press Release | 12. Apr 2017 |
New Logo!Power supply devices for up to 100 watts in ultra-narrow design

    New Logo!Power series in reduced width of 18 mm to 72 mm
    Scope for flexible installation using DIN rail or direct mounting
    Efficiency of up to 90% and no-load losses below 0.3 watts (W)
    Current monitor for real-time measurement of output current

With the 4th generation of Logo!Power, Siemens has extended its power supply portfolio to include two additional power supply devices as well as additional functionalities and new scope for application. This series of compact devices now comes with a narrower width reduced by 18 millimeters, allowing more flexible mounting, for instance on DIN rails in distribution boards, or directly on walls or ceilings. They can be mounted gaplessly side-by-side with other devices, for instance to supply power to adjacent Logo! logic modules. With efficiency of up to 90 percent over the entire load range, and no-load losses of less than 0.3 watts (W), these power supply devices offer outstanding energy efficiency both in standby and running operation.
Press Release | 11. Apr 2017 |
Siemens exhibits digital value chain for the packaging industry

    End-to-end digital value chain, from the engineering process to the integration of machinery in the line
    Innovative automation solutions for packaging machines and machine concepts for speed, efficiency, individuality, and flexibility
    Holistic solutions for plant operators in the food and beverage and pharmaceuticals industries

"Innovation in packaging – Benefits of digitalization" is Siemens' motto at this year's interpack, the world's leading trade fair for the packaging industry. The Siemens presentation focuses on digitalization and its effects on the packaging industry – from the digital value chain in the engineering process to the integration of machinery in the line. Siemens is presenting innovative automation solutions for packaging machines, such as the Multi-Carrier System, as well as new machine concepts to meet the requirements for speed, efficiency, individuality, and flexibility. Visitors to the booth will also get to know what MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system from Siemens, can offer them in the field of digital services. The main themes of the exhibition are rounded off by holistic solutions for plant operators – with examples from the food and beverage and pharmaceuticals industries.
Press Release | 06. Apr 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens improves the performance of the Vietnamese transmission grid
As part of a program to ensure a reliable national power supply in Vietnam, Siemens received an order to improve the performance of the nationwide transmission grid. Client is the state-run energy company, Electricity of Vietnam National Load Dispatch Centre (EVN NLDC). Siemens will supply and install products and systems for detecting and evaluating failure situations in the grid, for ensuring grid quality and for detecting and monitoring dynamic grid states.
Press Release | 06. Apr 2017 |
Electric motor sets two speed records

    Extra 330LE electric plane – powered by a Siemens motor – sets another world record
    Top speed above 340 km/h in straight flight
    World's first aerotow with an electric plane

On Thursday, March 23, 2017, the Extra 330LE aerobatic plane, powered by a propulsion system from Siemens, set two new speed records. At the Dinslaken Schwarze Heide airfield in Germany, the electric aircraft reached a top speed of around 337.50 kilometers per hour (km/h) over a distance of three kilometers. The speed achieved by pilot Walter Extra was 13.48 km/h faster than the previous record, which had been set by U.S. pilot William M. Yates in 2013. The World Air Sports Federation (FAI) officially recognized the record flight in the category "Electric airplanes with a take-off weight less than 1,000 kilograms." The Extra also set a new FAI world record in the category "above 1,000 kilograms": in a slightly modified configuration with an overall weight exceeding one metric ton, test pilot Walter Kampsmann flew the electrically powered plane at a speed of 342.86 km/h.
Press Release | 04. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens supplies digitalization package for the next Simotics SD motor generation

    New design for the new Simotics SD motor generation: high power density, compact dimensions and flexible terminal boxes
    Equipped as standard with DataMatrix code for unique motor identification and data access using smart devices
    Cloud-based data analysis through connection to MindSphere

With the latest generation of its Simotics SD (Severe Duty) motors, Siemens is offering a digitalization package to address the future challenges facing the world of drive technology. The new design is based on a robust, compact gray cast iron low-voltage motor with high power density. Its future-oriented energy efficiency concept is designed to provide a competitive boost to customers and users. Their extreme resistance makes the Simotics SD low-voltage motors suitable for applications in harsh environmental conditions involving exposure to dust, vibrations or aggressive atmospheres. These benefits make the motors ideal for applications in the petrochemical and general process industries.
Press Release | 04. Apr 2017 |
Information concerning press releases from Siemens Wind Power after the merger with Gamesa
Press Release | 04. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens drives implementation of Vision 2020 with Mentor Graphics acquisition and Gamesa merger

    Gamesa and Mentor Graphics transactions successfully closed
    Major portfolio steps in orientation toward growth fields in electrification, automation and digitalization
    Key milestones for customers, employees and shareholders

Siemens today concluded the merger of its wind power business with Gamesa on schedule. A few days ago, the company completed its acquisition of industry software provider Mentor Graphics earlier than originally planned. "Closing the two deals has enabled us to achieve another key milestone in implementing Vision 2020," said Siemens President and CEO Joe Kaeser. "With the new wind power company, we've created a global market leader in the area of renewable energies. Mentor Graphics will help us further expand our leading role in the digital sector. Both transactions will benefit customers, employees and shareholders."
Press Release | 03. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG
Supervisory Board of Siemens Healthineers ensures management continuity

    Supervisory Board of Siemens Healthineers extends contracts of three top managers Bernd Montag, Thomas Rathmann and Michael Reitermann
    Positions extended for five years as of April 1, 2017
    Move ensures Executive Management's long-term continuity and stability

The Supervisory Board of Siemens Healthineers has extended the contracts of the company's three top managers Bernd Montag, Thomas Rathmann and Michael Reitermann for five years, effective April 1, 2017. The move ensures Healthineers' successor planning over the long term and will enable the company's management team to further drive the business's successful setup.
Press Release | 03. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG
Merger of Siemens Wind Power and Gamesa
On April 3, 2017 Siemens concluded the merger of its wind power business with Gamesa on schedule. Siemens Wind Power and Gamesa will form a world-leading wind power provider, with an unrivalled global presence and an excellent position in an attractive growth market. The two companies complement one another almost perfectly and boast a unique product portfolio. The merger of Siemens' Wind Power business and Gamesa has today received unconditional clearance from the European competition authorities. Subject to pending closing actions, Siemens and Gamesa expect to close the merger early April, after the registration of the merged entity in the Vizcaya Companies Register. The Siemens combined analyst and press conference call with Joe Kaeser, Siemens President and Chief Executive Officer, Ralf P. Thomas, Siemens Chief Financial Officer, and Lisa Davis, Member of the Managing Board, regarding the merger took place on June 17, 2016. Further information can be found at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/en-int
Munich | 02. Apr 2017 - 02. Apr 2017 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens to modernize combined cycle power plant in the UK

    Existing plant to be replaced with more efficient gas turbine technology and long-term services
    Successful participation in UK Capacity Market Auction 2016 due to strong collaboration

Siemens has received an order for a new combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) at King's Lynn power station in Norfolk, United Kingdom (UK), owned by British energy and services company Centrica. The gas-fired power plant will consist of one unit in a single-shaft configuration and deliver a total capacity of approximately 380 megawatts (MW) to the grid. This is sufficient to provide electricity for approximately 380.000 British households. The agreement includes the installation and long-term servicing of a gas turbine, the servicing of a generator and a steam turbine, as well as the modernization of the existing instrumentation and control systems.
Press Release | 31. Mar 2017 |
Siemens wins order from Argentina for four industrial power plants

    Twelve gas turbines with a combined capacity of nearly 690 megawatts
    Total order volume around USD 570 million including long-term service
    Includes USD 115 million loan commitment

Siemens continues to be on a successful course with its energy business in Argentina: the company has secured orders to supply a total of four turnkey industrial power plants to the country. Six SGT-A65 TR (former Industrial Trent 60) gas turbines will form the heart of two plants in the cities of Luján and Matheu in Buenos Aires Province in eastern Argentina. Siemens has also been awarded a contract to supply six industrial gas turbines of type SGT-800 for two power plants in Las Palmas and San Pedro in the cities of San Pedro and Zarate. Siemens' customers are the two Canadian private equity companies Stoneway Capital and Araucaria Energy led by Roger Nores. They will operate the plants as independent power producers with the support of Siemens. The total order volume for Siemens is approximately USD 570 million. Siemens has also committed a USD 115 million loan to support the power plants' construction.
Press Release | 30. Mar 2017 |
Siemens closes Mentor Graphics acquisition

    Creates world's leading supplier of industrial software for the Digital Enterprise
    Siemens significantly expands its software business by entering the Integrated Circuit (IC) design and embedded software segments
    Emphasis placed on critical need for both Electronic Systems and IC development tools
    Siemens uniquely positioned to address complex development needs of today's smart products with convergence of PLM and EDA software

With the recent closing of its acquisition of electronic design automation (EDA) software leader, Mentor Graphics Corporation (Mentor), Siemens sets out to underscore the significant customer value it envisions for both Electronic Systems and Integrated Circuit (IC) design tools. Mentor is now part of Siemens' product lifecycle management (PLM) software business, making the combined organization the world's leading supplier of industrial software used for product design, simulation, verification, testing and manufacturing. As today's products – from smart phones and household appliances, to automobiles, aircraft and machinery – continue to increase the use of sophisticated embedded electronics, Siemens has uniquely positioned itself to provide a seamless and comprehensive software solution to the companies that develop these products.
Press Release | 30. Mar 2017 |
Siemens and SAP to offer meter data management for new utility business models

    Agreement will combine SAP for Utilities solutions with Siemens' meter data management solutions

Siemens and SAP have signed a global reseller agreement through which SAP will globally resell Siemens' market-leading meter data management solution, EnergyIP. This cooperative effort is intended to address multiple digital end-to-end business scenarios for energy and utility clients worldwide. The solution will be available directly from SAP, simplifying purchase and support processes for customers. It will be marketed under the name, SAP Meter Data Management by Siemens, and is expected to be generally available during the second quarter of 2017. As part of the agreement, SAP and Siemens also plan to further align development road maps in an effort to provide the foundation for next-generation business models supporting all future energy market players.
Press Release | 29. Mar 2017 |
Siemens and Sumitomo Electric win order for HVDC link and agree on cooperation

    Leading experts in latest HVDC converter and cable technology join forces
    India's first HVDC link featuring state-of-the-art VSC technology
    Transmission link to support Government’s Vision of 24x7 power for all

A consortium between Siemens and Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. has been awarded an HVDC order from Indian transmission operator Power Grid Corporation of India (POWERGRID) to supply a high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission system. The about 200 km long HVDC connection will be India’s first DC link featuring voltage-sourced converter (VSC) technology. VSC is the latest innovation in HVDC technology offering a very stable and highly flexible reactive power control independent of active power control and additional features to support the AC systems like blackstart capability. Furthermore, this solution is ideal to be combined with XLPE cable technology. Siemens will be supplying two converter stations with two parallel converters, each rated 1000 Megawatts (MW), featuring its VSC HVDC technology while Sumitomo Electric will be responsible for the XLPE HVDC cable system in the DC circuit. The combined order volume for Siemens and Sumitomo Electric is approximately $520 million. The grid connection is scheduled to go into operation in the first half of 2020.
Press Release | 27. Mar 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens driving digital transformation with $10 billion investment in U.S. software companies since 2007

    Software, technologies, digital services and cloud platform exhibited at Innovation Day USA to help customers embrace digitalization
    MindSphere, the cloud-based, open IoT operating system from Siemens, will play an important role to power double-digit growth in digital businesses
    30% increase in R&D spending for U.S. since fiscal 2014

Every day, billions of connected devices and machines bridge the real and virtual worlds, changing the way people live, travel, build and work. Today, at Siemens' U.S. Research and Development (R&D) hub, Siemens showcased innovative technologies that are helping industries from manufacturing to energy management to transportation embrace the power of data in a digital and connected world. Global and U.S. executives and technology experts demonstrated via virtual and interactive presentations how emerging trends and technologies like blockchain-based microgrids, additive manufacturing, artificial intelligence, autonomous robots, digital infrastructure, and MindSphere – the cloud-based, open IoT operating system from Siemens are changing lives for the better.
Press Release | 27. Mar 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens new 44-megawatt aeroderivative gas turbine for mobile power generation

    Most powerful mobile unit on the market
    Immediate power to the grid using proven technology
    Easy transport by air, land or sea
    Fast delivery and installation for customers who need power quickly

A product has been added to the Siemens gas turbine portfolio: The SGT-A45 TR mobile unit addresses the growing market for fast power. With an electrical generating capacity of up to 44 megawatts, this aeroderivative gas turbine is packaged for rapid deployment and can be installed in less than two weeks. Its design features outstanding power density, high fuel efficiency and excellent operational flexibility. This makes it particularly beneficial for customers with urgent power needs or in regions with less developed infrastructures.
Press Release | 21. Mar 2017 |
At White House, Siemens CEO boosts commitment to American manufacturing, workforce development

    Significant expansion of Siemens' successful apprenticeship program in the United States
    Commitment to hire and train at least 300 U.S. military veterans per year over next three years, in addition to more than 2,500 already part of workforce
    Pledge of more than $2 billion in industry software grants to train students for nextgen manufacturing jobs

Siemens Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG, bolstered Siemens' strong commitment to strengthening American manufacturing during a meeting today at the White House with President Donald Trump.
Press Release | 20. Mar 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens supports power projects in Bangladesh with financing

    Siemens supplies key components and long-term service for Sirajganj III combined cycle power plant
    Financial Services division provides up to USD80 million construction loan

Siemens Power and Gas (PG) Division recently received an order for the supply of key components for the Sirajganj III combined cycle power plant in Bangladesh providing a SGT5-2000E gas turbine and generator, as well as a long-term service contract for the project. Siemens' Financial Services Division (SFS) is contributing an up to USD80 million construction loan to support the project's successful and timely close. SFS is undertaking a primary/Mandated Lead Arranger (MLA) role in the transaction which is considered vital to the project's success. In addition, SFS demonstrated strong project support acting as one of only two international lenders participating in the Sinosure tranche. Sinosure is the national export agency of The Peoples Republic of China and provides export coverage to lenders to support long term lending in Bangladesh.
Press Release | 20. Mar 2017 | Financial Services
Basic industrial PCs for many different applications in the price-sensitive segment

    New series of basic industrial PCs with Simatic IPC327E Box PC and Simatic IPC377E Panel PC expand the Simatic IPC portfolio
    Optimized for many different industrial applications in the price-sensitive segment
    Wide range of applications: HMI, assembly workstations, warehousing and logistics, data collection and networking, and image processing
    Eight configurations are available directly from stock with short delivery times, including Panel PCs with 12, 15 or 19-inch single-touch widescreen displays

Siemens has now expanded its range of industrial PCs to include the Simatic IPC327E Box PC and Simatic IPC377E Panel PC. These new fanless devices in the Basic IPC series are optimized for many different industry-related automation applications in the low-price segment. They are particularly suitable for HMI (Human Machine Interface) applications, assembly workstations, warehousing and logistics, for data collection, e.g. production and energy data, as well as for production networking and simple image processing. The new basic IPCs and the already available Simatic IPC347E Rack PC are specifically intended for series machine manufacturers, distributors and system integrators. The new Box and Panel PCs are designed for maintenance-free, continuous 24 hour use in industrial environments. They come with the latest PC technology and many practical interfaces. There are eight pre-configured versions in stock for quick delivery: Panel PCs with 12, 15 or 19-inch, single touch widescreen displays, and Box PCs – each either with or without the Windows 7 Ultimate operating system pre-installed.
Press Release | 20. Mar 2017 |
Siemens issues bond of U.S.$7.5 billion

    Siemens' second-largest bond placement to date
    Financing of announced acquisitions and refinancing of outstanding and matured debt
    Credit rating unchanged

Siemens has successfully placed another large U.S.$ bond issue following last year's U.S.$6 billion transaction and a U.S.$7.75 billion transaction in 2015. It was the company's fourth bond placement in the U.S. capital market and its second-largest ever. The transaction was closed yesterday.
Press Release | 17. Mar 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens in the U.S.
Siemens has been in the U.S. for more than 160 years and it is now the company’s largest market. The company is using its global leadership in engineering and technology innovation to meet America’s toughest challenges. From efficient power generation to digital factories, from wellhead to thermostat, and from medical diagnostics to locomotives and light rail vehicles, Siemens in the United States delivers solutions for industry, hospitals, utilities, cities and manufacturers. Siemens’ next-generation software is used in every phase of product development, enabling manufacturers to optimize and customize equipment that touches American lives every day.
Feature | 17. Mar 2017 | Siemens AG
Eva Schulz-Kamm appointed global head of Government Affairs at Siemens
Eva Schulz-Kamm (45) will assume global responsibility for Government Affairs at Siemens on April 15, 2017. Schulz-Kamm is currently head of Political Affairs & Public Co-Creation at NXP in Hamburg.
Press Release | 17. Mar 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens mobile transformers are increasing the stability of New York's power grid

    Extra-high-voltage transformers installed with utility ConEd in record time – just 30 work hours over three days
    Novel plug-and-play transformers for emergency response

Siemens and Con Edison of New York, Inc. have successfully installed an innovative and versatile plug-and-play mobile resilience power transformer in record time. While it usually takes several weeks to transport and install a new power transformer on-site, the team completed the transformer's positioning and final installation in only 30 work hours.
Press Release | 16. Mar 2017 |
Hector Rail orders 15 locomotives from Siemens

    Delivery to begin in spring 2018
    Second order from the Swedish rail transport Hector Rail AB

Hector Rail AB, a Swedish rail transport company, has ordered 15 Vectron alternating-current (AC) locomotives. Delivery is planned beginning in the spring of 2018. All of the locomotives will have a maximum output of 6,400 KW and a top speed of 200 km/h. All Vectron AC locomotives are equipped with the European Train Control System (ETCS) as well as the ATC2-STM train control system. The locomotives will be used for heavy freight and timber transport in Sweden and Norway. To bridge short stretches without overhead power lines, the locomotives have a diesel power module with radio remote control on board.
Press Release | 15. Mar 2017 |
Siemens transformers receive iF Design Award

    Prize-winning design allows look at the inner workings of transformers
    The digital transformer as a crucial component in the energy system of the future

The new design of the Siemens transformer portfolio and its mobile resilience transformers were each presented with an iF Design Award in the Industry category. Thanks to the new shared design, Siemens has established a uniform look across all product types. At the heart of the design concept is the idea of making visible the innovations hidden inside the transformer. The design was implemented by the Munich-based HYVE Agency. The first mobile resilience transformers were shipped to the United States in 2016 and impressed the customer with their functionality and the compact design which allowed them to be installed in record time. The complete portfolio will gradually be changed over to the prize-winning design worldwide.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2017 |
More digitalization down to the field level with Profinet and Simatic PCS 7

    Simatic PCS 7 process control system Version 9.0
    Hardware innovations for distributed I/O concepts
    Comprehensive support for Profinet open Industrial Ethernet standard
    Wide-ranging compatibility generates added value
    New software functionality

With Version 9 of its Simatic PCS 7 process control system, Siemens is opening up scope for new perspectives to plant operators in the process industries and creating an additional building block en route for the Digital Enterprise. Version 9 of the Simatic PCS 7 process control system supports the world leading Industrial Ethernet standard Profinet with two new distributed I/O lines for greater digitalization right down to the field level, as well as extensive new software functionality. Plant operators also benefit from greater flexibility, convenience, future-proofing and wide-ranging compatibility with legacy installations.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2017 |
Siemens at the Hannover Messe 2017

    Press conference ahead of the Hannover Messe on March 14 in Karlsruhe
    Press conference at the Hannover Messe with member of the Managing Board Klaus Helmrich on April 24
    Trade fair presentation under the banner "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise"
    "MindSphere-Lounge" draws visitors into the Cloud

At an international press conference, due to be held ahead of the Hannover Messe 2017 on March 14 in Karlsruhe, Siemens will be offering a preview of its trade fair presentation and the company's latest solutions. Providing an insight into the company's planned business and technological orientation and into the latest product innovations being unveiled at this year's Hannover Messe will be the CEOs of the Digital Factory and Process Industries and Drives, Dr. Jan Mrosik and Dr. Jürgen Brandes, as well as Dr. Beatrix Natter, CEO of the Transformers Business Unit for Energy Management. In keeping with its theme for this year's fair, "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise", Siemens will be showing ways in which companies of different sizes and in different industries can benefit from digitalization – through a shorter time-to-market, greater flexibility, and improved efficiency and quality.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens extends Digital Enterprise for greater efficiency and flexibility in industry

    Booth slogan "Discover the value of the Digital Enterprise"
    Digitalization enhances flexibility, speed, efficiency and quality
    Innovations in power distribution, automation and drive technology as well as industrial software
    MindSphere extended to include partnerships, apps and interfaces

At the Hannover Messe 2017, Siemens will be demonstrating how industrial companies of all sizes can benefit from the digital transformation. The central focus of the 3,500-square meter booth in Hall 9 will be on the company's further extended portfolio for the achievement of end-to-end digitalization, known as the "Digital Enterprise". An array of examples from practice will allow visitors to experience applications and innovations demonstrating the competitive benefits to be gained by merging the real and the virtual worlds. These include greater flexibility, efficiency and quality as well as a reduced time-to-market. The examples on show range from smart energy management systems through customized food and pharmaceutical production to industrial-scale additive manufacturing based on innovative automation and drive technology. Siemens is also driving forward the expansion of its cloud-based, open IoT operating system MindSphere with the addition of new partnerships, interfaces and apps.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2017 | Siemens AG
Optimized cell technology reduces overall width of Sinamics Perfect Harmony GH180

    Reduced overall width through new printed circuit board (PCB) cell design
    20 percent narrower than comparable converters of its class
    Improved user convenience due to frontal fan exchange
    Proven topology using narrower, lighter cells

The latest generation of the Sinamics Perfect Harmony GH180 series from Siemens marks a significant improvement of this proven medium-voltage converter. The new PCB cell design permitting narrower, lighter-weight cells and a changed transformer design together add up to improved converter output. The new design reduces the overall width of the new Sinamics Perfect Harmony GH180 by around 20 percent compared to similar converters of its class. The new lighter cells can be removed without the need for any aids, and the fan can now be exchanged from the front, making for an enormous improvement in user convenience. Compatibility with almost every motor type makes the medium-voltage converter suitable for wide-ranging applications in fields such as power generation, mining, and the metal, cement, chemical, water, oil and gas industries.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2017 |
"Creating Perfect Places:" Innovations for safe and energy-efficient buildings
At ISH, the leading international trade show for building, energy and air conditioning technology and renewable energy sources took place in March 2017 in Frankfurt, Germany, the Siemens Building Technologies Division exhibited its current portfolio of products, systems and solutions for energy-efficient rooms and buildings as well as heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) technology. The motto of this year's Building Technologies display was "Creating Perfect Places." Today, people spend about 90 percent of their lives in buildings – not just their own residence, but also offices, production facilities, schools and universities as well as hospitals and retirement homes. Products and solutions from Siemens help make these buildings perfect places – safe and secure places with a comfortable climate.
Frankfurt am Main | 14. Mar 2017 - 18. Mar 2017 | Smart Infrastructure Save the date
Siemens TIA Portal with more openness and end-to-end work processes

    TIA Portal V14 SP1: Practical function extensions for the TIA Portal V14 engineering framework
    Focus on openness and engineering efficiency
    AutomationML for standardized data exchange with engineering software and CAE systems

Siemens is expanding its engineering framework to include a range of new practical functions to shorten engineering times with Service Pack 1 for TIA Portal V14 (Totally Integrated Automation Portal). The main focus of the innovations in TIA Portal V14 SP1 is bringing openness to other systems. This includes the standardized, bi-directional exchange of engineering data via AutomationML (Automation Markup Language) using engineering software such as Eplan, the TIA Selection Tool or other CAE (Computer Aided Engineering) systems. New features for the TIA Portal Openness programming interface now also enable the automated handling of hardware configurations, including fail-safe objects. This allows users to automate redundant functionality engineering and benefit from shorter development times, as well as minimized error rates.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2017 |
New servo drive system simplifies project engineering for machine builders

    New drive system comprising Sinamics S210 and Simotics S-1FK2 motors
    High dynamic performance and precision plus simple One Cable Connection (OCC)
    Integrated safety functions, rapid engineering and commissioning
    Servo drive system in five power classes from 50 to 750 watts

With its Sinamics S210 converter designed specifically for use with the newly developed Simotics S-1FK2 motors, Siemens is offering a new servo drive system in five power classes ranging from 50 to 750 watts. The converters come with integrated safety functions and enable rapid engineering. They are connected to the higher-level controller over Profinet and allow simple commissioning using a web server and one-button tuning. Working in combination with the Simotics servo motors, they enable the highly dynamic movement of minimal loads as well as ultra-precise movement of medium and high loads. The motors are connected to the converters using a One Cable Connection (OCC). Typical uses for the new drive system include in particular packaging machines, handling applications such as Pick & Place, wood and ceramic processing as well as digital printing.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2017 |
Siemens drives power converter business through improved integration

    Increasing customer benefits through deeper component integration
    Boosting more compact designs through miniaturization

The next generation of power converter requires a higher integration of semiconductors in order to reduce costs, increase reliability and miniaturize product design. Siemens is further driving digitalization by integrating new technologies and topologies in modular building blocks for innovative products in the power converter business.
Press Release | 14. Mar 2017 |
Digital ultrasonic flow system with high accuracy and noise immunity

    New clamp-on ultrasonic flow system Sitrans FS230
    Market-leading accuracy of 0.5 to 1 % of flow rate
    Cutting-edge 100 Hz data update rate
    Great variety of options for customization and easy operation

Combining the new Sitrans FST030 transmitter with dependable Sitrans FSS200 clamp-on sensors, Siemens is launching the next generation of digital clamp-on ultrasonic flow measurement technology: the Sitrans FS230. The new flow system with high accuracy and noise immunity is suitable for a broad array of industries requiring high-quality liquid flow measurement, including water and wastewater, power, food and beverage, pharmaceutical and chemical.
Press Release | 13. Mar 2017 |
Siemens presents new ARPEX all-steel coupling

    Highest power density on the market
    Increased torque and speed range as well as expanded bore capacity
    Temperature-resistant down to -50 degrees Celsius
    Certification according to API and ATEX

At the Hannover Messe 2017, Siemens will present an additional series in the range of torsionally rigid all-steel disc couplings: the new N-ARPEX coupling with improved performance characteristics. An optimized disc pack and a revised component design facilitate the transmission of higher torques and speeds as well as a higher bore capacity with standard hubs. All-steel couplings can be used in all applications that require reliable torque transmission in set-ups with shaft displacement.
Press Release | 13. Mar 2017 |
OPC UA enables fast, reliable communication for power supplies

    Sitop PSU8600 and Sitop UPS1600 equipped with open communication standard OPC UA
    Interface enables platform-independent data exchange
    Seamless communication with third-party applications 

The Sitop PSU8600 power supply system and Sitop UPS1600 uninterruptible power supply from Siemens now support the open communication standard OPC UA (Open Platform Communications Unified Architecture). The open interface for horizontal and vertical communication is based on the client-server principle and enables the rapid, manufacturer-independent exchange of data between the Sitop power supplies and industrial PCs, automation devices and third-party applications – even without Profinet. Users benefit from improved communication performance and the use of proven security mechanisms, as well as scalability and flexibility in terms of applications.
Press Release | 13. Mar 2017 |
Merger of Siemens Wind Power and Gamesa receives antitrust clearance

    All antitrust approvals obtained
    Closing of the merger expected early April

The merger of Siemens' Wind Power business and Gamesa has today received unconditional clearance from the European competition authorities. Antitrust approvals have now been obtained in all required jurisdictions, and all the conditions precedent for the merger have been satisfied. Subject to pending closing actions, Siemens and Gamesa expect to close the merger early April, after the registration of the merged entity in the Vizcaya Companies Register.
Press Release | 13. Mar 2017 |
Siemens to expand financial solutions for Asia-Australia region

    Siemens Bank receives approval to operate as a merchant bank in Singapore
    Siemens becomes first industrial company to support its growth strategy in Asian and Australian markets with a local bank branch in Singapore
    Focus on project and structured finance lending business mainly in the business-to-business and business–to-government segments

The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) grants approval for Siemens Bank GmbH Singapore Branch to operate as a merchant bank in Singapore. The new branch will cover financing activities for the Asia-Australia region. In addition to its main pillar, the loan and guarantee business, the branch will also provide selected finance advisory services for the Siemens group companies in Asia-Australia.
Press Release | 13. Mar 2017 | Financial Services
Siemens opens grid control center of the future with research and scientific partners
As part of the DynaGridCenter research project co-funded by the German BMWi (Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy), Siemens and its research and scientific partners have opened a dynamic grid control center at the Technical University of Ilmenau, Germany, that is the first of its kind in the world. The project involved setting up an IT link between the grid control center and a grid model at Magdeburg University. The grid model sends its measurement data to the grid control center in Ilmenau, where it's analyzed in real time. The analysis results are then used to control the Magdeburg model dynamically, with Ilmenau acting as a grid center of the future. The object of the DynaGridCenter project is to research the next generation of grid control centers and station control technology. The new control centers are designed to help manage the increasingly dynamic grids over the long term and to maintain grid stability.
Press Release | 10. Mar 2017 |
Siemens sets milestone with first 3D-printed part operating in nuclear power plant
Following the integration of 3D printing as part of its digital services portfolio, Siemens has achieved an industry breakthrough with the first successful commercial installation and continuing safe operation of a 3D-printed part in a nuclear power plant. Because of the stringent safety and reliability requirements in the nuclear sector, achieving this qualification is a significant accomplishment.
Press Release | 08. Mar 2017 |
Cornerstone laid for service depot for the Rhine-Ruhr-Express (RRX)

    Digital service to ensure nearly 99% availability of the 82 RRX trains
    Predictive service and maintenance for over 32 years
    Test operations as of mid-2018 in 70,000 square meters of depot property

Today the cornerstone was laid in Dortmund-Eving, Germany, for the service and maintenance depot being built for the Rhine-Ruhr-Express (RRX) trains. Test operations at the depot are scheduled to begin in mid-2018. In the future, all 82 RRX trains will be serviced and maintained here for a period of 32 years. Siemens will create 75 jobs for the depot and is investing a mid-double-digit-million euro sum in the facility.
Press Release | 07. Mar 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens optimizes converting machines with new compensation functions

    New Simotion Motion Control functions for higher winding quality, machine speed and process reliability
    Prismatic winding compensates for path length differences on non-circular winding bodies
    Learning Error Compensation (LECo) compensates for cyclic disturbance variables in the process

Siemens has expanded its Simotion Motion Control solutions for converting machines to include prismatic winding and Learning Error Compensation (LECo). Prismatic winding compensates for path length differences on non-circular winding bodies. The advantages are higher winding quality, machine speed and process reliability. The new self-learning LECo function compensates for periodic disturbance variables in the process, and quickly restores the process and product quality. Deviations, such as position errors of a process axis triggered by mechanical shock, are already largely compensated for after just one cycle. The new Simotion applications are used, for example, in the manufacture of battery electrodes as well as in the processing of corrugated cardboard or material webs.
Press Release | 06. Mar 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens wins major order for turbine overhauling in India
Siemens has won a significant order from Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC) in India to overhaul 18 units of RT48S & RT56 power turbines of Siemens fleet of aeroderivative gas turbines driven by Industrial AVON & Industrial RB211 gas generators along with installation and commissioning services. The turbines are operating at Mumbai High Asset and Neelam & Heera Asset of ONGC in Mumbai.
Feature | 03. Mar 2017 | Gas and Power
Siemens celebrates major milestone in Egypt megaproject

    Siemens reinforces its commitment to sustainable development of Egypt's power sector
    Additionally, company partners with BMZ to support vocational and occupational training in Egypt: more than 5,500 Egyptians being trained

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi symbolically inaugurated the first phase of Siemens' megaproject in Egypt today. The event marks an important milestone towards the completion of the project, which will boost the country's power generation capacity by 45 percent when finished. Together with its local partners, Orascom Construction and Elsewedy Electric, Siemens broke all records in modern power plant construction by connecting 4.8 gigawatts (GW) of new capacity to the grid in only 18 months after the signing of the contract for the company's biggest single order ever.
Press Release | 02. Mar 2017 |
Siemens to supply rotating equipment for major petrochemical project in Oman
Siemens and its Dresser-Rand business will supply two gas turbine-driven compressor trains and two gas turbine generator packages for the Liwa Plastics Industries Complex, a major petrochemical project in Oman. The natural gas liquids (NGL) extraction plant in Fahud, situated approximately 300 kilometers southwest of the capital of Muscat, is part of the industrial complex. The order was placed by the South Korean construction firm GS Engineering & Construction Corporation for the state-run oil refinery and petrochemical provider Orpic, which will operate the plant and the industrial complex. The NGL extraction plant is expected to go into operation in 2019 to extract valuable liquefied natural gases.
Press Release | 01. Mar 2017 |
Siemens stabilizes India's power transmission grid with large-scale SVC systems

    Commissioning of three Static Var Compensators (SVC) in the federal states of Rajasthan, Punjab and Kashmir
    In Punjab, largest fully regulated classic SVC system built by Siemens to date with reactive power range of one GVAr
    Total order value of EUR 60 million with high local content

In order to cover the burgeoning growth in demand for electrical power in India and to improve the stability of the power grid, the Indian power supplier and grid operator Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) is modernizing its high-voltage grid and preparing it for the challenges of the future. Siemens supported PGCIL on this task with the design, engineering, installation and commissioning of three large Static Var Compensators of the SVC Classic series with a total order value of EUR 60 million. The first and largest of the three SVC systems went into operation at the Ludhiana substation in the Indian state of Punjab in November 2016, followed by a second SVC with a slightly smaller reactive power control range at the Kankroli substation in Rajasthan. This one went into operation in December 2016. The third system at the New Wanpoh station in the state of Kashmir is due to follow in 2017.
Press Release | 01. Mar 2017 |
Siemens joins Charging Interface Initiative (CharIN e. V.)

    Strong commitment to develop fast, reliable and future proof fast charging technologies for electric vehicles
    Siemens actively participates in shaping and promoting standardization for electric vehicle (EV) fast charging solutions

A full-coverage high-power charging infrastructure is essential for driving forward electromobility. Therefore Siemens has intensified its commitment and activities to develop fast, reliable and future proof fast charging technologies for electric vehicles. In the role as core member of CharIN e.V. Siemens will bring in its extensive know how and experience in EV fast charging. In order to accelerate a global adoption of the CCS standard in particular and of high performance EV charging solutions in general, Siemens will actively participate in the standardization and market development activities of CharIN e.V..
Press Release | 28. Feb 2017 |
Desigo Control Point – building monitoring and operation made easy

    Graphical operation from room automation to primary systems
    Integrated graphics editor, extensive symbol and template library
    Dashboards to analyze and optimize energy consumption

The Siemens Building Technologies Division is expanding its comprehensive Desigo portfolio with the user-friendly Desigo Control Point, which will make its trade show debut at ISH 2017. Desigo Control Point includes a variety of new web servers and touch panels, providing expanded operation options for building operators and users.
Press Release | 28. Feb 2017 |
Siemens technology for Africa's first automated container terminal

    Electrical equipment supplied for 32 automated stacking cranes deployed in 16 intelligent yard blocks and 12 remote-controlled ship-to-shore cranes
    Modular and open automation concept designed for transparency and future technology upgrades increases productivity and improves safety
    The first automated container terminal in Africa is capable of handling Ultra Large Container Ships (ULCS) up to 20,000 TEU 

Siemens' scope of supply for APM Terminals MedPort Tangier includes the electrical and automation systems as well as the engineering and commissioning of 32 automated stacking cranes deployed in 16 intelligent yard blocks, which will be delivered in cooperation with innovative crane manufacturer Hans Künz GmbH, Hard (Austria). Siemens will also supply electrical systems used in 12 remote-controlled double trolley ship-to-shore cranes (STS). This order was placed by the Chinese Zhenhua Port Machinery Company (ZPMC), one of the world's biggest crane builders. The terminal, to be opened in 2019, will be the world's first transshipment hub featuring an end loading yard concept.
Press Release | 27. Feb 2017 | Digital Industries
Siemens and Allgäuer Überlandwerk form joint venture for smart grid expansion
Siemens and Allgäuer Überlandwerk GmbH (AÜW), based in Kempten, Germany, have formed a joint venture named egrid to commercially implement the results from IRENE and IREN2, two joint smart grid research projects in Wildpoldsried. It was agreed that Siemens would acquire a 49-percent share in the AÜW subsidiary, egrid applications & consulting GmbH. The transaction is subject to clearance by the competent competition authorities. The joint venture will offer innovative consulting services for distribution grid operators and will continue to refine existing offers. The joint venture's consulting services will focus on "intelligence instead of copper" solutions for smart grid expansion. The primary action areas will be the integration of large capacities from distributed generation plants and intelligent control of the distribution grid.
Press Release | 24. Feb 2017 |
Siemens wins order for HVDC link between Great Britain and France

    ElecLink interconnector to increase the existing interconnection capacity between the two countries by 50 percent
    Interconnector will foster energy exchanges, thus providing increased reliability and security to consumers throughout Europe
    ElecLink is one of the European Commission's projects of common interest

Siemens has been awarded an order to supply a link between the French and British power grids. The customer is ElecLink Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Groupe Eurotunnel SE. The "ElecLink" high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) link will enhance power supply reliability in both countries and promote the integration of renewable energy sources into the power grid. Siemens will supply the two HVDC converter stations at both sides of the DC power line, which will be routed as a DC cable through the Channel Tunnel. This cable is to be supplied by Prysmian and installed by Balfour Beatty. The volume of Siemens' share of the order is around EUR 315 million. The link is scheduled to take up commercial operation early 2020. The foundation stone of the future converter station was laid on February 23, 2017, by Jesse Norman, Minister for Industry and Energy signalling the start of the construction work which, when complete, will supply enough electricity to power more than 1.65 million typical households per year.
Press Release | 23. Feb 2017 |
Siemens to supply five large gas turbines to Saudi Arabia

    Order for F-class gas turbines includes service for Fadhili plant
    Turbines to be produced locally at Siemens Dammam Energy Hub
    Total order volume approximately USD 400 million

Siemens has received an order for five F-class gas turbines for a combined heat and power (CHP) plant in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. With an electrical generating capacity of about 1,500 megawatts (MW), the plant will supply about 400 MW of electricity and process steam to a new natural gas extraction plant in Fadhili which is located 100 kilometers northwest of Dammam in the Eastern Province of the Kingdom. The additional 1,100 MW will be sufficient to supply power to 1.1 million Saudi households. All five turbines will be produced at the Siemens Dammam Energy Hub (SDEH), the first manufacturing facility for gas turbines in Saudi Arabia and the largest in the Middle East. Purchaser is the South Korean company Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. who is responsible for Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) of the plant.
Press Release | 23. Feb 2017 |
World's first electrically powered boat for fish farming goes into operation in Norway

    Electric propulsion and control system from Siemens
    Saves fuel, preserves the environment, and reduces maintenance costs
    Siemens is the leader in green solutions for shipbuilding

The world's first battery-powered work boat for fish farming has been brought into operation in Norway. The "Elfrida" electric boat is used off the coast of Central Norway by Salmar Farming AS, a Norwegian salmon farmer. Siemens developed and supplied the complete electrical propulsion and control system to the local shipbuilding company, Ørnli Slipp. The double-hulled boat is around 14 meters long and eight meters wide. It requires around 50 minutes for its daily trip to the fish hatchery, which lies twelve kilometers off the coast. One hundred percent battery operation is possible throughout a normal working day of about eight hours.
Press Release | 23. Feb 2017 |
Intuitive operation and increased flexibility for Desigo building management system

    Desigo Control Point for graphical operation of HVAC plants
    Room pressure and fume hood control for laboratories and clean rooms
    More flexible scope of use thanks to new hardware components

The Siemens Building Technologies Division has added numerous new components and functions to its Desigo building automation system. The system now includes significant new portfolio elements for cost-efficient and flexible solutions especially for small and medium-sized projects that require little integration. The new version of Desigo will be presented to the public for the first time at ISH 2017 in Frankfurt, Germany.
Press Release | 22. Feb 2017 |
Siemens power bridge to connect British and French power grids
The foundation stone of the future converter station was laid on the morning of February 23rd in Folkestone by Jesse Norman, Minister for Industry and Energy signalling the start of the construction work for high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) project ElecLink. Siemens has been awarded an order to supply a link between the French and British power grids by customer ElecLink Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Groupe Eurotunnel SE. The ElecLink high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) link will enhance power supply reliability in both countries and promote the integration of renewable energy sources into the power grid. ElecLink, when complete, will supply enough electricity to power more than 1.65 million typical households per year. The HVDC link between France and Great Britain has been designated as one of the European Commission's projects of common interest to help create an integrated European Union energy market.
Feature | 22. Feb 2017 | Siemens AG, Gas and Power
Siemens to supply building automation to the Munch Museum in Oslo
The Oslo City Administration has selected Siemens to provide the building management system and building automation for the new Munch Museum. Siemens will install the Desigo CC building management platform in the arts museum of the Norwegian capital, together with all associated automation equipment, panels and the necessary interfaces, engineering, programming, commissioning and training of museum employees.
Press Release | 22. Feb 2017 |
Siemens technology enables Gestamp to cut energy consumption at its plants by 15 percent

    The system monitors real-time energy consumption at 14 factories spread across Spain, Germany, the UK, France and Poland
    Plans to extend the project to 30 facilities in 2017
    Moreover, Gestamp is managing to reduce its plants' CO2 emissions by 15 percent and to use big data to optimize spending on electricity 

Thanks to a cloud-based efficient energy management platform that uses big data to optimise consumption, Siemens has enabled Gestamp, a multinational company in metal autoparts manufacturing, to reduce energy consumption by up to 15 percent at 14 of its plants. The Spanish company specialises in designing, developing and manufacturing metal autoparts to make lighter and safer cars, and has chosen Siemens as global supplier to implement this system and thus manage to optimise its energy needs in an industry that is increasing its energy consumption. The initial phase was the implementation of Siemens' efficient energy management platform at Gestamp's production plants in Spain, Germany, the UK, France and Poland. There are plans to extend the project to 30 plants, including China and USA, before the end of 2017.
Press Release | 22. Feb 2017 |
Modular components for networked air handling units

    Modbus-capable components especially for OEMs
    System comprising controllers, damper and valve actuators and sensors
    Networked AHU solutions for time and cost savings

At ISH 2017, the Siemens Building Technologies Division will display new Modbus-capable components especially for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). These new components make it easy to develop and equip networked air handling units, allowing OEMs to save time and reduce costs.
Press Release | 21. Feb 2017 |
Siemens to supply signaling systems for new metro system in Nagpur, India

    Trainguard MT ordered for first two metro lines of Nagpur Metro Rail Project
    Order worth around €40 million

Siemens is to supply signaling technology for the first two metro lines of the Nagpur Metro Rail Project in India. The order, worth €40 million, comprises the delivery of Siemens' Trainguard MT system that uses wireless Communications-Based Train Control (CBTC) technology to enable automated train operation. Overall, around 38 kilometers of the project's double-track route, two depots and 23 three-car metro trains will be equipped with the system. The CBTC solution allows trains to operate at headways of 90 seconds or less.
Press Release | 20. Feb 2017 |
Siemens drives new advances in process bus communication for energy automation
Taking part in a joint innovation project, Siemens and the Russian manufacturer of instrument transformers, Profotech, have demonstrated the interoperability of unconventional (fiber-optic) current and voltage instrument transformers connected to digital protection devices via process bus. Siemens and Profotech are thus taking process bus communications technology in energy automation a step closer to commercial deployment. One of the greatest challenges here is to ensure interoperability so that the connected devices can also communicate together without error regardless of the manufacturer. In the case of Profotech's optical current and voltage instrument transformers, for example, the current and voltage values can now be transmitted digitally in the form of digital sampled values from the primary system via the process bus to the secondary system over the Ethernet. There they are further processed in smart terminals such as protection devices or energy meters.
Press Release | 20. Feb 2017 |
Desigo CC delivers new features for greater productivity, efficiency and transparency

    Support for large and complex sites
    Energy and power reporting, scripting and archiving functions
    Fully customizable OEM version

The Siemens Building Technologies Division has added a variety of new tools and support for additional applications to its open and modular Desigo CC building management platform which covers the complete scope from simple single-discipline systems to fully integrated buildings. The support for large systems has been expanded even further: Desigo CC can now also tackle even the largest and most complex sites. Furthermore, the new version supports validated environments such as the pharma industry.
Press Release | 16. Feb 2017 |
DB Regio orders 39 multiple-unit regional trains from Siemens

    First order for 24 articulated trains based on the new Mireo platform
    15 double-decker trainsets from the proven Desiro train family
    Commissioning in the summer of 2020

Beginning in 2020, DB Regio AG will operate its Rhine Valley rail network in southwest Germany exclusively with new trains supplied by Siemens. The mass transit arm of Deutsche Bahn has ordered 39 trainsets specifically for this purpose. The order comprises 15 Desiro HC and 24 Mireo trains. This marks the first order for the company's new articulated Mireo regional train platform that was recently premiered at Innotrans, the world's biggest rail trade fair.
Press Release | 16. Feb 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens to secure long-term competitiveness of mechanical drives unit

    Next step in further improvement of competitive position
    Setup of standalone company under Siemens umbrella 

Siemens is giving its mechanical drives unit (Mechanical Drives, MD) a new setup that will enable the business to operate more efficiently and flexibly in implementing its growth plans in a competitive environment. MD's market, which is dominated by medium-sized companies, is currently characterized by weak growth, increasing competition from the Asian region and overcapacities, with correspondingly high price pressure. To achieve greater room to maneuver and intensify its business-specific orientation, the unit is to be managed in the future as a separate company under the Siemens umbrella.
Press Release | 16. Feb 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens joins partners to drive forward digitalization of industrial production

    Research project "Road to Digital Production (R2D)" targets implementation of the smart factory concept
    Execution as part of the "Information and Communication Technology" program funded by the Free State of Bavaria
    Project implementation in partnership with the Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Circuits IIS, its Fraunhofer Center for Applied Research on Supply Chain Services SCS and the companies iTiZZiMO and KINEXON 

Siemens is joining forces with three partners to take part in the research project "Road to Digital Production (R2D)" supported by the Bavarian State Ministry for Economic Affairs and the Media, Energy and Technology which is aimed at developing improved technologies, interfaces and infrastructures for the implementation of digital industrial production. Since September 2016, the interdisciplinary team of experts has been working to digitally map and integrate the process landscape of industrial mass production down to the workshop level.
Press Release | 15. Feb 2017 |
Service operation vessel for Dutch Gemini project christened in Hamburg
The wind service operation vessel (SOV) for the Dutch Gemini project has been christened "Windea la cour" today in Hamburg. The vessel is to set sail to start operations at the Gemini offshore wind power plant this summer. This is the third Siemens-chartered SOV which is supporting Siemens and its offshore service operations. Since June 2015, 'Esvagt Faraday' is supporting service operations at the Butendiek offshore wind power plant in North Sea and 'Esvagt Froude' is utilized for service at the EnBW Baltic II wind farm in the Baltic Sea. A fourth SOV will be utilized for service operations by Siemens at the Sandbank and Dan Tysk wind projects. SOVs are part of innovative approaches in the sector of service for offshore wind power of Siemens anc can make a vital contribution in the future to further reducing the costs for electricity generated by offshore wind farms.
Feature | 15. Feb 2017 | Gas and Power
Siemens modernizes drive system for ore mills in Chile

    Modernization increases drive system reliability and boosts mill throughput
    System installation time of 45 days minimizes mill standstill period
    Extremely short time of commissioning within 8 days
    New drive system ensures significantly lower downtimes

As one of the world's biggest copper ore operations, the Chilean mining company Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi SCM based in Las Condes/Chile commissioned Siemens to modernize the drive system of four of its ore mills. The mine is located in the North of Chile, around 180 kilometers southeast of the port of Iquique. The contract required Siemens to supply complete state-of-the-art drive systems comprising new motors and Flender couplings with torque limiting shear pin as well as new Sinamics SL150 cycloconverters with thyristor stacks from its extensive portfolio. The new drive systems will give a huge boost to the reliability and consequently also the throughput of the mills. The contract is valued in the double-digit million range.
Press Release | 14. Feb 2017 |
Building Information Modeling: Siemens publishes data for products

    BIM data for more than 1,200 products including field devices, automation, KNX and fire safety products
    Available in REVIT, IFC, VDI and CIBSE formats
    Automatic update of data

Digitalization is finding its way into the construction industry through Building Information Modeling (BIM). BIM is a digitally assisted process for planning, constructing and operating buildings; it is giving the construction industry a strong productivity boost and is expected to gain in importance over time. Now the Siemens Building Technologies division has developed BIM data material suitable for this planning method.
Press Release | 14. Feb 2017 |
Siemens Finance Week: Driving investments to overcome Asia's infrastructure gap

    Siemens outlines innovative ways and approaches to boost large-scale capital in infrastructure financing
    Convergence of disruptive technology and public-private partnerships identified as key drivers of narrowing Asia's infrastructure gap
    The way forward lies in analyzing completed projects, establishing stable risk-sharing and making procurement more transparent 

Increasing the bankability of developments is a key factor to narrowing Asia's infrastructure gap, according to speakers at the "Drivers of Infrastructure Investment in the Asian Market" symposium organized by Siemens Financial Services (SFS) yesterday.
Press Release | 13. Feb 2017 | Financial Services
"Creating Perfect Places": Innovations for safe and energy-efficient buildings
At ISH, the leading international trade show for building, energy and air conditioning technology and renewable energies to take place in March 2017 in Frankfurt, Germany, the Siemens Building Technologies Division will exhibit its current portfolio of products, systems and solutions for energy-efficient rooms and buildings as well as heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) technology.
Press Release | 09. Feb 2017 |
Nearly every second employee also a shareholder

    165,000 Siemens employees own company shares, up 12,000 from last year
    49 percent of all eligible employees are also shareholders
    Siemens distributes €56 million in shares to employee shareholders

Of Siemens' 351,000 employees worldwide, nearly one in two is also a company shareholder. The number of employees holding Siemens shares increased eight percent to 165,000, compared to 153,000 in the previous year. This year, more than 131,000 employees – or 39 percent of all eligible employees – took part in Siemens' Share Matching Program, a very high figure compared to similar global share programs. Particularly noteworthy was the positive trend in North America and Asia: Participation in the U.S. alone increased by around 18 percent and even climbed by roughly 32 percent in China.
Press Release | 07. Feb 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens achieves breakthrough with 3D printed gas turbine blades

    Successful first full load engine tests of Additively Manufactured blades
    Additive Manufacturing a main pillar in digitalization of manufacturing 

Siemens has achieved a breakthrough by finishing its first full load engine tests for gas turbine blades completely produced using Additive Manufacturing (AM) technology. The company successfully validated multiple AM printed turbine blades with a conventional blade design at full engine conditions. This means the components were tested at 13,000 revolutions per minute and temperatures beyond 1,250 degrees Celsius. Furthermore, Siemens tested a new blade design with a completely revised and improved internal cooling geometry manufactured using the AM technology. The project team used blades manufactured at its 3D printing facility at Materials Solutions, the newly acquired company in Worcester, UK. Materials Solutions specializes in high performance parts for high temperature applications in turbomachinery where accuracy, surface finish and the materials quality is critical to ensure operational performance of the parts in service. The tests were conducted at the Siemens testing facility in the industrial gas turbine factory in Lincoln, UK.
Press Release | 06. Feb 2017 |
Siemens Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2017
Siemens held its Annual Shareholders' Meeting at the Olympia Hall in Munich on February 1, 2017. The topics of the Siemens Annual Shareholders' Meeting are available here. Please find below the opening and the speeches of Dr. Gerhard Cromme, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Joe Kaeser, CEO, press pictures of the event and a best-of-video of the press conference and Annual Shareholder's Meeting.
Munich | 01. Feb 2017 - 01. Feb 2017 | Siemens AG Save the date
Jim Hagemann Snabe proposed as new Chairman of Siemens' Supervisory Board

    Siemens ensures continuity and long-term succession planning for Supervisory Board
    International leader with industry expertise to strengthen Siemens' key future-oriented field of software and digitalization

The Nominating Committee of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG has recommended Jim Hagemann Snabe for the office of Supervisory Board Chairman. Siemens' Supervisory Board unanimously endorsed this recommendation at its meeting on Tuesday. The regular elections to Siemens' Supervisory Board will take place at the company's Annual Shareholders' Meeting on January 31, 2018. Mr. Snabe is to be elected Chairman at the Supervisory Board's constitutive meeting immediately thereafter.
Press Release | 01. Feb 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens pays dividend of €3.60 per share

    Annual Shareholders' Meeting ratifies acts of Managing and Supervisory Boards by large majorities

Shareholders at Siemens' Annual Shareholders' Meeting have approved distribution of a dividend of €3.60 per share for fiscal 2016 as recommended by the Managing and Supervisory Boards. This dividend is ten cents more than for fiscal 2015. The Annual Shareholders' Meeting also ratified the acts of the members of the Managing and Supervisory Boards for fiscal 2016. The proposals on these and the other agenda items were approved by large majorities.
Press Release | 01. Feb 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens and Bentley agree to jointly offer planning and design solutions for utilities
Building on the strategic alliance between Siemens and Bentley Systems, that was made public in November, 2016, Siemens' Energy Management Division and Bentley Systems have announced an agreement to jointly develop solutions to accelerate digitalization of planning, design and operations for power utilities and industrial power customers. Bentley Systems is a global leader in software solutions for advancing the design, construction, and operations of infrastructure. The first of the new offerings will integrate Bentley System's utility design and geographic information systems (GIS) capabilities with Siemens' Power System Simulation (PSS) Suite, with specific solutions for power transmission, power distribution and industrial facilities. Combining these two platforms provides customers with Bentley's expertise in 3D infrastructure asset modelling and GIS with Siemens' knowledge and renowned experience in energy system planning and simulation.
Press Release | 31. Jan 2017 |
First Quarter Results FY 2017
We released our first quarter results for fiscal year 2017 on January 31, 2017. The Press Conference and the Analyst Call were broadcast live.
Munich | 30. Jan 2017 - 30. Jan 2017 | Siemens AG Save the date
Siemens overdelivers on promise in Egypt megaproject

    4.8 gigawatts of power generation capacity already connected to grid
    400 megawatts (or 10 percent) surplus through turnkey technology leadership
    New world record for fast-track power projects
    Excellent cooperation with local partners and authorities

In June 2015, Siemens was awarded its single biggest order ever for the expansion of the Egyptian power supply. Now, only 18 months after the signing of the contract, Siemens has set a new worldwide benchmark for the execution of fast-track power projects. Together with its local partners Orascom Construction and Elsewedy Electric, the company has made great progress in its effort to boost Egypt's power generation capacity by 45 percent, upon final completion of the three power plants. The first phase of the megaproject in Egypt has been finalized. The promised goal of bringing 4.4 gigawatts (GW) of new capacity to the grid has even been exceeded, and 4.8 gigawatts are already connected to the grid. The surplus capacity of 400 megawatts is sufficient to supply more than one million people in Egypt with electricity.
Press Release | 30. Jan 2017 |
18 Vectron locomotives ordered

    Multisystem locomotives equipped for the D-A-CH-I corridor
    Deliveries to begin in December 2017
    Initial service with SBB Cargo International 

Together with the infrastructure fund of Reichmuth Infrastruktur Schweiz AG, the leasing company LokRoll AG has ordered 18 multisystem Vectron locomotives from Siemens. They will be used for cross-border operation along the Germany-Austria-Switzerland-Italy corridor. In addition to having national train control systems, all locomotives will also be equipped with the European Train Control System (ETCS). The locomotives will have a maximum output of 6,400 KW and a top speed of 160 km/h. LokRoll will lease the locomotives to the Swiss freight transport firm SBB Cargo International for a period of 15 years.
Press Release | 30. Jan 2017 | Siemens Mobility
ÖBB orders up to 200 locomotives from Siemens

    Framework contract of up to 200 Vectron locomotives
    First tranche for 30 Vectron MS
    Delivery to begin in summer of 2018

Austrian Railways (ÖBB) has signed a framework contract with Siemens for the delivery of up to 200 Vectron locomotives. Under the contract, up to 100 alternating current (AC) locomotives, 50 alternating current (AC) locomotives with diesel power modules, and 50 multisystem (MS) locomotives can be called up. A firm order for 30 MS locomotives was placed at the signing. The locomotives will be built in the Siemens plant in Munich-Allach, Germany. The first units are to be delivered beginning in summer of 2018.
Press Release | 30. Jan 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens sets new world records at Düsseldorf power plant "Fortuna"
The "Fortuna" combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) power plant at the Lausward location in the port of Düsseldorf was successfully handed over to the customer and operator, the Stadtwerke Düsseldorf public utility company, on January 22, 2016. The power plant has broken three world records: in the acceptance test a maximum electrical net output of 603.8 megawatts (MW) was achieved and the net energy conversion efficiency was around 61.5 percent. In addition, "Fortuna" can also deliver up to around 300 MW for the district heating system of the city of Düsseldorf – a further international peak value for a power plant equipped with only one gas and steam turbine. This increases the overall efficiency of natural gas as a fuel to 85 percent. The heart of the "Fortuna" CCGT power plant is the extremely powerful SGT5-8000H gas turbine from Siemens. Highly efficient and flexible CCGT power plants ideally complement renewable energy sources such as the wind and the sun, which are subject to fluctuations in their power outputs.
Feature | 27. Jan 2017 | Gas and Power
Siemens to supply turnkey combined cycle power plant to Thailand

    Market entry with first two H-class gas turbines in Thailand
    Fifth large power plant project in consortium with Marubeni in the country
    Total order volume about 550 million U.S. dollar

Siemens, together with its Japanese consortium partner Marubeni Corporation, has received an order for the delivery of a turnkey combined cycle power plant to Thailand. Purchaser is the state-owned utility Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT). The gas-fired power plant South Bangkok consists of two units in a single-shaft configuration and will feature two H-class gas turbines for the first time in the country. After commissioning in 2019 the power plant with an electrical output of around 1,200 megawatts is expected to power 1.5 million Thai households. The combined order volume for Siemens and Marubeni is approximately 550 million U.S. dollar (the equivalent of approximately 500 million Euro).
Press Release | 26. Jan 2017 |
Siemens automates metro metro Ninghe Intercity Line in Nanjing, China
China's megacities alone are home to more than 260 million people. These gigantic conurbations have recently undergone rapid growth of almost two percent per year, and are suffering increasing traffic problems caused by the soaring rate of car use. Hence the correspondingly strong demand for solutions for the further development of urban rail transport. The Nanjing customer has now commissioned Siemens to equip metro Ninghe Line with the CBTC automatic train protection system Trainguard MT. The contract includes the CBTC trackside equipment for the 36 kilometer line as well as the ATC equipment of the 24 trains. In the long term more than ten metro lines will be built in Nanjing – of which five alone will or already been feature Siemens signaling technology.Siemens can look back on a long partnership in China with the Nanjing Metro Corporation. Siemens equipped metro line 1, which started running in 2005 and is now 47 kilometers long, as well as metro line 2 in 2010. Line 2 serves 26 stations and forms the east-west tangent of the city of Nanjing in eastern China. Following the extension of the city's metro with line 2, the rail network now covers 85 kilometers. Line 10, Nangjing's first cross-Yangtze river metro line was put into operation on July 1, 2014. Its first phase runs 23.6 kilometers with 14 stations. The latest Nanjing metro line fitted with signaling technology from Siemens is Nanjing Metro Line 3, which went on public operation on April 1, 2015.
Feature | 25. Jan 2017 | Siemens Mobility
Siemens to expand China's Nanjing line

    Long Term Evolution (LTE) radio technology to be used for the first time
    Better performance than WiFi
    Commissioning scheduled for the end of 2017 

Siemens has received an order from the Nanjing Metro Corporation to equip a 52-kilometer line with the Trainguard MT automatic train protection system for the Nanjing-GaoChun LuGao section. Siemens will be using LTE (Long Term Evolution) radio technology for the first time here in order to transfer mass data in real time. The line links six stations in the Gaochun district in the south with the center of the megacity. Following commissioning at the end of 2017, trains will run at a top speed of 120 km/h on this stretch.
Press Release | 25. Jan 2017 |
next47: Siemens founds separate unit for startups
Effective October 1, 2016, Siemens will set up a separate unit to foster disruptive ideas more vigorously and to accelerate the development of new technologies. The unit's name, "next47," plays on the fact that Siemens was founded in 1847. At next47, the company will pool its existing startup activities. The new unit will have funding of €1 billion for the first five years. Siegfried Russwurm, Siemens Chief Technology Officer, will head the new unit on an acting basis. The new unit will be given the necessary independence but can nevertheless leverage the advantages offered by Siemens. It will have offices in Berkeley, Shanghai and Munich and cover all regions of the world from those locations. next47 will build on Siemens' existing startup activities. The new unit will be open to employees as well as to founders, external startups and established companies if they want to pursue business ideas in the company's strategic innovation fields.
Feature | 23. Jan 2017 | Siemens AG
Siemens to supply compressor trains for natural gas processing plants in Iran
Siemens has received a major order for 12 compressor trains for two onshore natural gas processing plants in Iran. The company Palayesh Parsian Sepehr will operate the plants. Siemens' customer is the EPC Hampa Engineering Corporation. The order volume is in the high double-digit million euro range. Commercial operation is expected end of 2018.
Press Release | 23. Jan 2017 |
Siemens awarded Cyber Security certificate for digital grid automation solutions
Siemens is the first company worldwide to have received a certificate for network automation solutions from TÜV Süd, Munich, Germany, in accordance with the international standards series IEC 62443. The secure substation framework from Siemens has been certified to IEC 62443-2-4 (requirements for system integrators) and IEC 62443-3-3 (requirements for the security functions of systems). The certified architecture is based on Siemens' experience and knowledge as a globally active company, and the processes described in the certification ensure the necessary transparency of the security-relevant procedures in line with the standards. Siemens thus develops and implements network automation solutions for power supply companies and grid operators which are based on the latest international standards in terms of cyber security and have been adapted to the current security guidelines.
Press Release | 23. Jan 2017 |
Siemens delivers power plant unit for combined cycle facility in Hong Kong

    First power plant project from Hong Kong for the Black Point Power Station
    Market entry with first H-class gas turbine in Greater China
    Delivery of the 80th SGT-8000H unit worldwide

Siemens received an order from Castle Peak Power Company Limited(CAPCO) for the delivery of a power block for a new combined cycle unit in its Black Point Power Station in Tuen Mun, in the northwest of Hong Kong. This marks the first order for Siemens power plant components from Hong Kong in 20 years. CAPCO is a joint venture of China Southern Power Grid International Limited and CLP Power Hong Kong Limited (CLP Power). Scheduled to be in operation before 2020, the plant will have an installed total capacity of 550 megawatts (MW) to supply approximately a million households with electricity. Siemens is delivering an H-class gas turbine to Greater China for the first time, and has now sold the total of 80 SGT-8000H units worldwide.
Press Release | 20. Jan 2017 |
Dresser-Rand business commissions its first micro-scale LNG production solution
The Dresser-Rand business, part of Siemens Power and Gas, has commissioned its first micro-scale natural gas liquefaction system at the Ten Man liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility in Pennsylvania, U.S. The modular, portable LNGo technology enables distributed production of LNG and can be installed in a short period of time to meet local demand for LNG. This cost-effective solution, developed by the Dresser-Rand business, allows the operator, Frontier Natural Resources, to monetize stranded gas assets at Tenaska Resources LLC's Mainesburg field, located in the Marcellus shale play. Frontier Natural Resources is an independent natural gas producer focused on developing conventional and unconventional resources. The scope of supply included a standardized LNGo solution consisting of four different modules, each handling one step of the liquefaction process. The whole LNGo system can be transported on eight trucks. It is deployed directly at the gas field and has a footprint of approximately 508 square meters, roughly the size of a basketball court. The Ten Man facility commenced production just four months from contract signing, and has produced approximately half a million liters of LNG in the first 20 days. "This project demonstrates our unique capabilities to deliver innovative solutions for oil and gas applications that help our clients maximize the value of their assets," said Michael Walhof, sales director Distributed LNG Solutions for the Dresser-Rand business. "We are proud to provide Frontier Natural Resources with a reliable, robust solution to liquefy natural gas and cost-effectively move it to market." The LNGo technology makes it possible to monetize stranded gas deposits due to its relatively low capital and operating costs. The micro-scale LNGo solution can be deployed in rough terrain or remote regions, eliminating the need to establish an expensive gas pipeline infrastructure or arrange for long-distance trucking of LNG from centralized plants to point of use. It can function as a decentralized solution where the requisite pipeline infrastructure is lacking, or as an onsite transformation solution to reduce or eliminate flaring of petroleum gas at, for example, oil rigs or producing gas fields.
Feature | 18. Jan 2017 | Gas and Power
Siemens boosts energy efficiency of a Turkish sugar factory
The Turkish sugar producer Amasya Sugar (Amasya Şeker Fabrikası A.Ş.) is equipping the entire low-voltage power distribution network at its factory with systems and components from Siemens. The new equipment will provide reliable and uninterrupted distribution of power generated by four gas turbines. Aided by intelligent energy data acquisition and analysis capabilities, operators can now monitor energy flows throughout the entire production plant and take over control as needed. As a result, the plant can operate with much greater energy efficiency and higher availability.
Press Release | 18. Jan 2017 |
Powerful view to the stars: Siemens delivers power substations to Observatory
Siemens has received an order from ESO (European Southern Observatory) in Chile to supply and install three container substations. These compact stations are equipped with medium-voltage switchgear, low-voltage switchgear, dry-type transformers and secondary systems, and will ensure a reliable power supply to the Very Large Telescope (VLT) array and other telescopes. The VLT is the most advanced of its kind and is situated on the 2,600-meter Cerro Paranal mountain in the Atacama Desert of northern Chile. The order has a volume of approximately EUR 1.2 million.
Press Release | 16. Jan 2017 |
Siemens and GEA partner in delivering continuous manufacturing to Pharmaceutical Industry
GEA and Siemens AG announce a partnership to bring continuous manufacturing to the pharmaceutical and life sciences industry by offering an integrated continuous tablet manufacturing line. The collaboration will deliver both production benefits, in terms of reduced project execution risk, higher quality and cost-effective manufacturing and customer benefits in the form of seamlessly integrated technologies, expertise and support.
Press Release | 09. Jan 2017 |
Siemens to modernize metro line in Peru

    Line 1 in the capital city of Lima
    New traction power supply for first line section

Siemens is to provide the complete traction power supply for the first section of metro line 1 in Lima, which covers around nine kilometers. The modern power supply, upgrading of existing overhead contact line system and modifications to electrification in the depots will increase both the availability and the cost-effectiveness of the rail route. The upgrade be carried out during ongoing operation.
Press Release | 04. Jan 2017 |
Siemens employees can charge electric vehicles for free

    Free "fill ups" at up to 100 Siemens locations in Germany to begin in 2017
    Charging stations to supply green electricity and be internationally linked 

Beginning in 2017, Siemens employees at as many as 100 of the company's locations in Germany can "fill up" their electric vehicles free of charge. This will apply not only to all-electric vehicles but also to plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. For this service, Siemens will use its existing network of charging stations, which it is expanding with normal and high-speed charging stations.
Press Release | 27. Dec 2016 | Siemens AG
Kickoff for Siemens Campus Erlangen

    Groundbreaking ceremony with State Minister Herrmann
    Siemens' first CO2-neutral location
    Completion of first module already in 2020 

Today's groundbreaking ceremony marks the start of the construction of the first module of Siemens Campus Erlangen. A completely new urban district is now set to arise in the southern part of Erlangen, Germany, Siemens' largest location worldwide. Scheduled for completion in 2030, the campus will include a hotel, restaurants and service operations as well as office buildings. In keeping with the location's future role as an international research and development center, guests at the ceremony were given a first impression of the future campus in a virtual 3D tour.
Press Release | 09. Dec 2016 | Siemens AG
Siemens Campus in Erlangen
Siemens AG is constructing a modern and sustainably designed Siemens Campus Erlangen in the southern part of the city of Erlangen, Germany. By 2030, the company's research center in the south of the city will have been transformed step-by-step into one of Siemens' most advanced locations worldwide. Future-oriented office, research and laboratory jobs will be located on the campus. Equipped with the most advanced building and energy technologies, it will be developed over the long term into Siemens' first CO 2-neutral location worldwide. A new urban residential and living environment will arise on the campus grounds. Siemens will be part of the community as never before. Designed by the Frankfurt architects KSP Jürgen Engel Architekten, the campus's open plan will link the company and society and provide a basis for the exchange of ideas. The construction project has a planned investment volume of some €500 million and will cover an area of 54 hectares. Siemens Campus Erlangen underscores the company's long-term commitment to its Erlangen location and will be a symbol of innovative power for employees and for the region. The project was planned and designed in close cooperation with the state of Bavaria and the city of Erlangen.
Feature | 09. Dec 2016 | Siemens AG, Real Estate
Siemens aims to achieve double-digit annual growth in digital businesses

    Software, digital services and platforms as growth drivers
    MindSphere cloud-based, open operating system rolled out companywide
    Cooperation with IBM: IBM Watson Analytics to be integrated into MindSphere
    R&D investments rise to over €5 billion

Siemens wants to further strengthen its position as a digital company and achieve double-digit growth in software, digital services and cloud platforms every year through 2020. In fiscal 2016, Siemens generated revenue of more than €1 billion with digital services and around €3.3 billion with software solutions, an increase year-over-year of around 12 percent, which is considerably above annual market growth of some eight percent.
Press Release | 07. Dec 2016 | Siemens AG
Electric motor from Siemens sets new world climb record

    Extra 330LE electric plane sets world record
    New climb performance record: altitude of 3,000 meters in just 4 min 22 sec
    World air sports federation FAI confirms world record

On Friday, November 25, 2016, the Extra 330LE aerobatic aircraft powered by a drive system from Siemens set a new world record for time to climb. At the Dinslaken Schwarze Heide airfield in Germany, the electric-powered plane reached an altitude of 3,000 meters in just four minutes and 22 seconds – a climb velocity of 11.5 meters per second. The time set by pilot Walter Extra was 1 minute 10 seconds faster than the previous world record set by U.S. pilot William M. Yates in 2013. The world air sports federation, Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI), has officially recognized the record flight in the category "Electric-powered planes less than 1,000 kilograms."
Press Release | 07. Dec 2016 | Siemens AG
Siemens to host Germany-wide young researchers competition

    Siemens partner company for Jugend forscht for third time
    Germany-wide competition to be held in Erlangen in May 2017
    Siemens to honor ten researchers for 558 inventions 

Siemens is teaming up for the third time with the Stiftung Jugend forscht to host Germany's best-known youth competition. The company previously hosted the nationwide event in 1976 and 1997. This year's competition, the fifty-second, will be held in Erlangen, Germany, on May 25-28, 2017. The final winners will be selected by a jury from among the 200 winners of statewide contests and presented with their awards on May 28 by the German Minister of Education and Research.
Press Release | 05. Dec 2016 | Siemens AG
Siemens cuts CO2 emissions by 20 percent

    Carbon dioxide emissions lowered from 2.2 million to 1.7 million tons
    Siemens expects savings of €20 million a year
    Siemens solutions have enabled customers to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions by 521 million tons 

One year after the launch of its decarbonization program, Siemens is already making significant advances in reducing its carbon footprint. The company was able to cut its CO2 emissions from 2.2 million tons in fiscal 2014 to 1.7 million tons in fiscal 2016. A major portion of the carbon dioxide savings – 200,000 tons – were achieved at locations in Germany. With the aid of Siemens solutions, the company's customers worldwide succeeded in reducing their CO2 emissions by 521 million tons in fiscal 2016. This amount is equivalent to more than 60 percent of Germany's annual carbon dioxide emissions.
Press Release | 01. Dec 2016 | Siemens AG

Products & Services

    Building technology
    Energy
    Drive Technology
    Financing
    Healthineers
    Industrial Automation
    Mobility
    Services
    Software
    Consumer Products

Market-specific Solutions
Company

    Press
    Jobs & Careers
    About us
    Fairs, Events & Webinars
    Innovation
    Investor Relations
    Stories
    Sustainability
    Topic Areas

Contact Siemens
Get in touch
Follow our global channels
Change region
  Global | English
Press | Company | Siemens © Siemens 1996 – 2020 Corporate Information Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Terms of Use Digital ID
